Q.16
Arsenic (As) in the soil has become an environmental concern worldwide because it is
difficult to remediate and can adversely impact human health. The fern, Athyrium
yokoscense is well known as a Cd hyperaccumulator as well as a Cu, Pb and Zn
tolerant plant. However, no information is available on As accumulation
by A. yokoscense, although it often grows in soils containing high levels of several
heavy metals and As. To understand As accumulation in A. yokoscense, a student
conducted an experiment in which young ferns collected from a mining area were
grown in media containing As-spiked paddy soils or mine soil in a greenhouse for
21 weeks. Before transplanting fern biomass was 0.26 ± 0.08 g plant
 DW and As
concentrations of young and old fronds were 7.8 ± 0.3 and 57.7 ± 2.2 mg kg
,
respectively.
Control
Mine soil
Fern biomass (g/plant)
As-spiked soils
As content (mg/kg)
As-spiked soils
Control
Mine soil
Root
Young frond
Mature frond
Old frond
Root
Frond
Fig.Q16. A: Dry biomass of A. yokoscense after 21 weeks of cultivation in a greenhouse. B: Arsenic concentration in
different parts of A. yokoscense cultivated in As- spiked soils and mine soils. 
Tukey’s test, a multiple comparison procedure and statistical test was used. The statistical significance of the difference
between treatments for a given organ, are shown using the letter a – f above the bar. The same letter means there is no
statistical difference for that organ.
Indicate in the Answer sheet if each of the following statements is True or False. 
A. Moderate As levels in soils promote the growth of ferns.
B. Concentration of As in root grown in arsenite-spiked media (As
) is lower than
those in arsenate treatment (As
), resulting in the increase of total biomass.
C. Arsenic concentration increases from young to old fronds and is positively
correlated to As levels in the soil
D. The transfer of As from root to frond of A. yokoscense in mine soil over time is
similar to that in arsenate-spiked soil.
−1
−1
3+
5+
20/56
