!
!

                                                                                                                    !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
All IBO examination questions are published under the following Creative Commons license:
!

                                                             !
!
CC BY-NC-SA (Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike) -
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/

The exam papers can be used freely for educational purposes as long as IBO is credited and
new creations are licensed under identical terms. No commercial use is allowed.
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                                    G0-1
                                                                                           English (Official)

General Instructions for Theory Part A

Date: July 11th, 2024
Time Allowed: 3 hours and 15 minutes (NO additional time)
The Theory Part A exam consists of 50 tasks across the following topics:

    · Biosystematics: Q1-3
    · Cell and Molecular Biology: Q4-12
    · Ecology: Q13-17
    · Ethology: Q18-19
    · Genetics & Evolution: Q20-29
    · Plant Anatomy and Physiology: Q30-37
    · Animal Anatomy and Physiology: Q38-50
Supplementary figures are provided in the Appendix.

Each question is worth a maximum of 1.0 point. Marking is done based on the scheme below:

Number of correctly identified 0  1  2                                    3    4

statements

Points      0                     0  0.2                                  0.6  1

Please keep in mind:

Instructions

You can use the question paper for your notes and rough work, we do not assess it.

An answer sheet is provided. Only answers recorded on the answer sheet will be scored. The sheet
includes several fields that need to be filled out. Follow the instructions below for filling out the answer
sheet:

In the "Last and First Name" field, write your last name (family name) and first name in English (if
both do not fit, write only your last name).

In the "Country or Territory" field, write the country or territory you represent at the IBO in En-
glish.

In the "ID" field, first enter the three digits of your personal ID number in the leftmost column
(from top to bottom), then shade the corresponding digit in the row to the right of each digit of
the ID number.

The largest field, "Answers," contains 50 questions, each with four statements labelled A, B, C, and
D. Each statement has two squares: the "T" square indicates true, and the "F" square indicates
false.

Ensure that the squares in the "ID" and "Answers" fields are completely shaded with no un-
shaded areas remaining and without going outside the boundaries. Marks like "+", "x", check-
marks, or circles will not be read. Black squares must be shaded with a black pen (using a red pen
or pencil is strictly prohibited).
Theoretical Exam - Part A              G0-2
                                                     English (Official)

Do NOT fill out the "charge person" field and do NOT shade any fields that are not specified above.
Black squares in the corners SHOULD NOT be shaded/corrected as it will interfere with the scan-
ning process.

Communication with Organizers

You are provided with four types of cards for assistance during the exam:

     · Drinking Water (Blue): Raise this card if you need water.

     · Washroom (Yellow): Raise this card if you need to use the washroom.

     · Correction (White): Raise this card if you made a mistake on your answer sheet and want to fix it.

     · Other Queries (Red): Raise this card if you have any other questions.

If you make a mistake on your answer sheet, use the "Correction (White)" card to request a correction
pen. Using the correction pen, recolor the wrongly shaded area into white without going outside the
boundaries. You cannot ask for correction in the last 10 minutes. (Note: Overuse of the correction
pen may cause scanning errors, try to put in the answers once you are fully confident)

Drinking water  Washroom   Correction  Other queries

During the Exam

At the beginning of the exam, a whistle signal will let you know to open the exam papers and start writing.

15 minutes before the end, please start filling out the answer sheet if you have not already. We do not
provide extra time to put your answers on the answer sheet.

At the end of the exam, a whistle signal will indicate when to stop writing and put down your pen imme-
diately.

Continuing to write after the whistle signal will result in disqualification.

No materials, papers, or equipment should be taken out of the examination room.
Theoretical Exam - Part A  G8-1
                                         English (Official)

Appendix

Amino acid structures with abbreviations: G-glycine, A-alanine, S-Serine, T-Threonine, C- Cysteine, V
-Valine, L-Leucine, I- Isoleucine, M- Methionine, P- Proline, F- Phenylalanine, Y- Tyrosine, W- Tryptophan,
D- Aspartic acid, E- Glutamic acid, N- Asparagine, Q-Glutamine, H- Histidine, K- Lysine, R- Arginine
Theoretical Exam - Part A                    G8-2
                                                           English (Official)

Codon table for Amino acids:

                              Second letter

First letter
                                                           Third letter
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q1-1
                                          English (Official)

Biosystematics

1

Kazakhstan boasts a rich ecosystem harboring numerous species of tulips, some of which are direct
ancestors to many modern cultivated varieties. These tulips exhibit a diverse range of morphological
traits, although not all of these traits are reliable indicators of species identification.

In Table 1 below, we outline five distinct types of tulips and their variations across five characteristics
(A-E), typically utilized in the classification of tulip types.

       Table 1. Morphological comparisons; A - presence/absence of hairs on the stamen, B - number
       of flowers (2(+) = 2 or more), C - presence/absence of a dense layer of hairs on the bulbs, D -
       number of leaves, E - color of the stamen filament, Y - yellow, K - black.

It's worth noting that T. borszczowii has the same features as the common ancestor among these tulip
species.

                 On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
                 ones.

                 A. In a phylogenetic tree constructed using maximum parsimony, the species T.
                 lemmersii, T. salsola, and T. bifloroformis are expected to constitute a polyphyletic
                 group.

                 B. The maximum parsimony tree contains at least one character reversal.

                 C. All plants within the genus Tulipa share the characteristic of having leaves
                 with either arcuate or parallel veins.

                 D. According to the data, the presence of two or more flowers is the most re-
                 cently evolved characteristic compared to the others.
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q1-2
                                          English (Official)

2

You are given five species of birds from the Strigiformes order (Owls), commonly found in Kazakhstan
(Figure 1A). However, the genera to which these species belong are unknown to you. To ascertain this,
you were provided with information depicted in the figures below.

                                                                                           Million years

Figure 1. A Five bird species; the bottom row in each box represents the partial list of the
birds' inhabiting areas (refer to Figure 2). B Phylogenetic tree of the Strigiformes order with
their full inhabiting area lists. The number of species that make up the corresponding genus
is indicated in parentheses.
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q1-3
                                          English (Official)

                                           South America
                                           Central America
                                            North America
                                            Eurasia
                                            Africa
                                            Madagascar
                                            Philippines
                                            Australia
                                            New Zealand

Figure 2. Area distribution key; each rectangle corresponds to a certain area.

It is also known that:
    · Species 3 and 5 share the most recent common ancestor that lived 5 million years ago.
    · Species 2 and 3 share the most recent common ancestor that lived 20 million years ago.
    · Species 5 and 4 share the most recent common ancestor that lived 40 million years ago.
    · The genus to which species 1 belongs has never been found in the Philippines.

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. One of the five listed species is the only representative of its genus.

B. Constructing a phylogenetic tree using this data reveals that species 1 and 4
are the second most closely related among the five species.

C. Some of the five given species belong to the same genus.

D. A migration (in terms of species dispersal) from America to Africa and Eura-
sia is a more parsimonious explanation for the geographic distribution of Strix
compared to a migration in the opposite direction.
Theoretical Exam - Part A           Q1-4
                                                   English (Official)

3

Yerzhan studies the evolution of four closely related bacterial strains (A, B, C, D), focusing on RNA poly-
merase subunit  and transposase. He reconstructed phylogenetic trees for the two corresponding
genes that code for these proteins (Figure 1X,Y) using the alignment of four sequences (representative
snapshot is shown on Figure 2) and the most parsimonious solution. He rooted both phylogenies using
the D strain as an outgroup. Unfortunately, he realized that he forgot to properly label the datasets.
Consequently, he began comparing these phylogenetic trees to the reference phylogenetic tree recon-
structed from genes of ribosomal proteins (Figure 1Z).

X                          Y     Z

   C                          A     A

   B                          B     B

   A                          C     C

   D                          D     D

Figure 1. Phylogenetic trees reconstructed from RNA polymerase subunit  (X or Y), trans-
posase (X or Y) and reference genes of ribosomal proteins (Z).

Figure 2. Alignments of representative regions of two genes from four bacteria strains (A-D)

         On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
         ones.

         A. Phylogenetic tree X was reconstructed from the alignment I.

         B. In the Alignment I, 4 out of 5 positions are useful for determining tree's topol-
         ogy.

         C. Phylogenetic tree X was reconstructed from the RNA polymerase subunit .

         D. Using species D as an outgroup, there are in total two possible phylogenetic
         tree topologies for the four species A-D.
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                 Q2-1
                                                                         English (Official)

Cell and Molecular Biology

4

The extracellular pH of normal tissues is typically between 7.35 and 7.45. Meanwhile, in the tumor mi-
croenvironment, extracellular pH is mildly acidic in the range of 6.5­6.9. Figure 1B provides an overview
of the average extracellular pH values observed in different tumor types compared to their respective
normal cells. Cancer cells also exhibit changes in the oxygen consumption rates (OCR). This phenomenon
is demonstrated in Figure 1A by comparing the OCR of normal and cancer cells from three patients.

A                        Normal cells            B        Tumor tissue
                         Cancer cells                     Normal tissue
                                               *                                                   8.0
                                       *                                                      7.8pH
                                                                                         7.6
                          *                                                        7.4Skin
                                                                               7.2Vulvar
                                                                         7.0  Uterus
                                                                    6.8        Lung
                                                               6.6             Breast
                                                          6.4
                                                                               Brain
   Single cell OCR (AU)

                                                                                                        Muscles

                         Patient 1  Patient 2  Patient 3

Figure 1. A Oxygen consumption rates (OCR) in arbitrary units (AU) of normal and cancer
cells. B Extracellular pH of normal tissue and corresponding tumor tissue. Asterix indicates a
significant difference.

                         On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
                         ones.

                         A. Difference in oxygen consumption between cancerous and normal cells in-
                         dicates that tumor cells exhibit decreased metabolic rate.

                         B. Differences in extracellular pH values can be explained by the altered ratio of
                         glucose fermentation to oxidative phosphorylation in cancer cells compared to
                         normal ones.

                         C. The tumor microenvironment is typically hyperoxic due to elevated oxygen
                         consumption by cancer cells.

                         D. The cancer cells of patient 3 are more heterogeneous compared to the cancer
                         cells of the other two patients.
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-2
                                          English (Official)

5

Mutagenesis was performed to determine the effect of single mutations in the binding site of an anti-
body. The mutants were analyzed for binding to four cardiac glycoside molecules: digoxin, digitoxin,
digoxigenin, and ouabain. The binding properties of mutated antibodies were tested by ELISA, a tech-
nique that relies on enzyme-linked antibodies to detect target antigens. After the antibody binds to the
antigen (in our case, glycoside), the enzyme linked to the antibody catalyzes the added substrate, lead-
ing to a color change that can be measured by spectrophotometry at 405 nm. The following heatmaps
represent the ELISA results based on the position of change and the amino acid to which wild-type amino
acid was mutated.

Figure 1. A Binding data of antibodies mutated in the positions described in the figure to the
four glycosides. The absorbance, which correlates to the binding strength of digoxigenin (P),
ouabain (Q), digoxin (R), and digitoxin (S) to the mutated antibodies, was linearly scaled to that
of the wild-type (labeled in red) which was assigned a value of 1.0 (labels of glycosides P, Q, R,
and S should not be confused with the one-letter codes of amino acids). B Differences in the
structure of digoxin (R) and its three analogs. W - sugars.
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-3
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. The strongest binding in position Tyr-33 was for substitution by aromatic
amino acids.

B. In all shown amino acid positions, at least one substitution improves the an-
tibody affinity.

C. Antibody with double substitution Tyr-33-Trp and Trp-100-Arg probably could
be used in cardiac glycoside detection systems.

D. Sugar moieties appear to play a role in the affinities of antibodies to cardiac
glycoside molecules.
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-4
                                          English (Official)

6

The bonds between the central carbon atom and attached groups in peptides can rotate freely. The
rotation angles of the N-C and C-C bonds are called  and  angles, respectively. To measure the
 angle, first draw the C-C bond horizontally so that the N group is at 0 degrees (in the same plane
as the C-C bond). Then rotate the distal N group around the C-C bond until the structure matches
the structure that you aim to measure as shown in Figure 1C. For the  angle, place the N-C bond
horizontally and rotate the distal C group. The Ramachandran plot visually represents the combinations
of  and  angles in a peptide backbone (Figure 1B).

Figure 1. A Part of the peptide with shown  and  angles. B The Ramachandran plot with
the values of  and  angles for all the amino acid residues except Gly in the rabbit's pyruvate
kinase. C The  angle values are created by the rotation. D Three structures of amino acids'
residues.
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-5
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. The structure (a) in Figure 1D is located in Region 2 in Figure 1B.

B. The structure (b) in Figure 1D is located in Region 3 in Figure 1B.

C. The structure (c) in Figure 1D is uncommon in rabbit's pyruvate kinase.

D. Amino acids, other than glycine, with 0 degrees of both  and  angles do
not occur in rabbit's pyruvate kinase.
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-6
                                          English (Official)

7

The Pentose Phosphate Pathway (PPP) is a metabolic pathway occurring in the cytoplasm that mainly
generates NADPH and ribose 5-phosphate. NADPH is used for the reduction of reactive oxygen species
(ROS) such as hydrogen peroxide. PPP has oxidative and non-oxidative phases, which are irreversible
and reversible, respectively.

Figure 1. A Oxidative. B Non-oxidative. G6P ­ glucose 6-phosphate, GA3P ­ glyceralde-
hyde 3-phosphate, F6P ­ fructose 6-phosphate, R5P ­ ribose 5-phosphate, G6PDH ­ glucose
6-phosphate dehydrogenase, TKT ­ transketolase, N - nucleotides. CXP - other intermediates
where X is the position of phosphorylated carbon. Note that all intermediates of PPP are phos-
phorylated on the last carbon.
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-7
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. In actively dividing cells, the reactions occurring before the first TKT-catalyzed
reaction are more active than those occurring later.

B. TKT catalyzes a reaction that transfers a one-carbon fragment.

C. Deficiency of G6PDH activity will reduce the level of available NADPH in red
blood cells.

D. For each molecule of G6P, there will be two molecules of F6P produced
through both phases.
Theoretical Exam - Part A                               Q2-8
                                                                       English (Official)

8

Certain loci in the genome are influenced by epigenetic modifications, but understanding their precise
mechanisms remains challenging. The IGF2-H19 locus serves as a well-known example, regulated by
the methylation state of the imprinting control region (ICR). In addition to the two genes, this locus
contains one enhancer and four CTCF-binding sites (CTCF is a DNA-binding protein), one of which serves
as an ICR. A proposed model suggests that the spatial interaction among these elements underlies the
regulatory mechanism governing the expression of IGF2 and H19. CTCF binding does not interrupt with
the promoter function.

A          IGF2               B
                                             IGF2

   H19

                                                   H19

C                             Cohesin

           CTCF

D          IGF2               H19      GENES

        1                  2  3             CTCF-BS
                                       4

Figure 1. A Paternal chromosome, IGF2 active (green arrow) and H19 inactive (red arrow). B
Maternal chromosome, IGF2 and H19 basal expression (black arrows). Note that diagrams A
and B reflects real physical distances and that intersection of two blue lines (represeting DNA)
reflects very close physical proximity of two DNA strands. C DNA loop formed by CTCF and
cohesin. D IGF2-H19 locus with CTCF-binding sites 1-4 (CTCF-BS).
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-9
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. One CTCF-binding site can be involved in the formation of only one DNA loop.

B. ICR overlaps with CTCF binding site 2.

C. The enhancer is located between CTCF binding sites 3 and 4.

D. ICR methylation directly affects the expression of H19, independent of the
enhancer.
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-10
                                                    English (Official)

9

Cryo-EM is a modern structural study technique that works by averaging multiple low-quality electron
micrographs, cryo-EM generates high-quality structural maps. It offers flexibility by accommodating
various molecular sizes and capturing multiple conformations. The structure and mechanism of ATAD1,
a mitochondrial homohexamer protein, were resolved using cryo-EM. The protein's function was then
determined using the structural data and fluorescent assays.

Figure 1. A Density map of the average of all conformations obtained by electron microscopy.
B Top view of the molecular model of ATAD1 hexamer emphasizing C-terminal alpha-helices,
with a black curve representing the polypeptide chain substrate. C The structure of the central
pore with its substrate (black) and all interacting amino acids (colored residues). D Fluorescent
microscopy assay for wild-type ATAD1 and with mutation E193Q (at position 193, Glu  Gln),
Gos28 is the hypothetical target, MitoTracker is a mitochondrial fluorescent marker, the red
arrow points to one mitochondrion.
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-11
                                                    English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Given that the density map contains an unclear M6 subunit, at any moment
only one of the ATAD1 subunits is flexible.

B. C-terminal alpha helices shown on the molecular model are made entirely
from hydrophobic amino acids.

C. Change of charge due to mutation E193Q affects the physical interaction of
position 193 with the substrate.

D. ATAD1 translocates proteins mislocalized into the matrix of the mitochondria.
