@@PAGE 1@@
!
!

                                                                                                                    !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
All IBO examination questions are published under the following Creative Commons license:
!

                                                             !
!
CC BY-NC-SA (Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike) -
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/

The exam papers can be used freely for educational purposes as long as IBO is credited and
new creations are licensed under identical terms. No commercial use is allowed.
@@PAGE 2@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                                    G0-1
                                                                                           English (Official)

General Instructions for Theory Part A

Date: July 11th, 2024
Time Allowed: 3 hours and 15 minutes (NO additional time)
The Theory Part A exam consists of 50 tasks across the following topics:

    · Biosystematics: Q1-3
    · Cell and Molecular Biology: Q4-12
    · Ecology: Q13-17
    · Ethology: Q18-19
    · Genetics & Evolution: Q20-29
    · Plant Anatomy and Physiology: Q30-37
    · Animal Anatomy and Physiology: Q38-50
Supplementary figures are provided in the Appendix.

Each question is worth a maximum of 1.0 point. Marking is done based on the scheme below:

Number of correctly identified 0  1  2                                    3    4

statements

Points      0                     0  0.2                                  0.6  1

Please keep in mind:

Instructions

You can use the question paper for your notes and rough work, we do not assess it.

An answer sheet is provided. Only answers recorded on the answer sheet will be scored. The sheet
includes several fields that need to be filled out. Follow the instructions below for filling out the answer
sheet:

In the "Last and First Name" field, write your last name (family name) and first name in English (if
both do not fit, write only your last name).

In the "Country or Territory" field, write the country or territory you represent at the IBO in En-
glish.

In the "ID" field, first enter the three digits of your personal ID number in the leftmost column
(from top to bottom), then shade the corresponding digit in the row to the right of each digit of
the ID number.

The largest field, "Answers," contains 50 questions, each with four statements labelled A, B, C, and
D. Each statement has two squares: the "T" square indicates true, and the "F" square indicates
false.

Ensure that the squares in the "ID" and "Answers" fields are completely shaded with no un-
shaded areas remaining and without going outside the boundaries. Marks like "+", "x", check-
marks, or circles will not be read. Black squares must be shaded with a black pen (using a red pen
or pencil is strictly prohibited).
@@PAGE 3@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A              G0-2
                                                     English (Official)

Do NOT fill out the "charge person" field and do NOT shade any fields that are not specified above.
Black squares in the corners SHOULD NOT be shaded/corrected as it will interfere with the scan-
ning process.

Communication with Organizers

You are provided with four types of cards for assistance during the exam:

     · Drinking Water (Blue): Raise this card if you need water.

     · Washroom (Yellow): Raise this card if you need to use the washroom.

     · Correction (White): Raise this card if you made a mistake on your answer sheet and want to fix it.

     · Other Queries (Red): Raise this card if you have any other questions.

If you make a mistake on your answer sheet, use the "Correction (White)" card to request a correction
pen. Using the correction pen, recolor the wrongly shaded area into white without going outside the
boundaries. You cannot ask for correction in the last 10 minutes. (Note: Overuse of the correction
pen may cause scanning errors, try to put in the answers once you are fully confident)

Drinking water  Washroom   Correction  Other queries

During the Exam

At the beginning of the exam, a whistle signal will let you know to open the exam papers and start writing.

15 minutes before the end, please start filling out the answer sheet if you have not already. We do not
provide extra time to put your answers on the answer sheet.

At the end of the exam, a whistle signal will indicate when to stop writing and put down your pen imme-
diately.

Continuing to write after the whistle signal will result in disqualification.

No materials, papers, or equipment should be taken out of the examination room.
@@PAGE 4@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  G8-1
                                         English (Official)

Appendix

Amino acid structures with abbreviations: G-glycine, A-alanine, S-Serine, T-Threonine, C- Cysteine, V
-Valine, L-Leucine, I- Isoleucine, M- Methionine, P- Proline, F- Phenylalanine, Y- Tyrosine, W- Tryptophan,
D- Aspartic acid, E- Glutamic acid, N- Asparagine, Q-Glutamine, H- Histidine, K- Lysine, R- Arginine
@@PAGE 5@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                    G8-2
                                                           English (Official)

Codon table for Amino acids:

                              Second letter

First letter
                                                           Third letter
@@PAGE 6@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q1-1
                                          English (Official)

Biosystematics

1

Kazakhstan boasts a rich ecosystem harboring numerous species of tulips, some of which are direct
ancestors to many modern cultivated varieties. These tulips exhibit a diverse range of morphological
traits, although not all of these traits are reliable indicators of species identification.

In Table 1 below, we outline five distinct types of tulips and their variations across five characteristics
(A-E), typically utilized in the classification of tulip types.

       Table 1. Morphological comparisons; A - presence/absence of hairs on the stamen, B - number
       of flowers (2(+) = 2 or more), C - presence/absence of a dense layer of hairs on the bulbs, D -
       number of leaves, E - color of the stamen filament, Y - yellow, K - black.

It's worth noting that T. borszczowii has the same features as the common ancestor among these tulip
species.

                 On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
                 ones.

                 A. In a phylogenetic tree constructed using maximum parsimony, the species T.
                 lemmersii, T. salsola, and T. bifloroformis are expected to constitute a polyphyletic
                 group.

                 B. The maximum parsimony tree contains at least one character reversal.

                 C. All plants within the genus Tulipa share the characteristic of having leaves
                 with either arcuate or parallel veins.

                 D. According to the data, the presence of two or more flowers is the most re-
                 cently evolved characteristic compared to the others.
@@PAGE 7@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q1-2
                                          English (Official)

2

You are given five species of birds from the Strigiformes order (Owls), commonly found in Kazakhstan
(Figure 1A). However, the genera to which these species belong are unknown to you. To ascertain this,
you were provided with information depicted in the figures below.

                                                                                           Million years

Figure 1. A Five bird species; the bottom row in each box represents the partial list of the
birds' inhabiting areas (refer to Figure 2). B Phylogenetic tree of the Strigiformes order with
their full inhabiting area lists. The number of species that make up the corresponding genus
is indicated in parentheses.
@@PAGE 8@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q1-3
                                          English (Official)

                                           South America
                                           Central America
                                            North America
                                            Eurasia
                                            Africa
                                            Madagascar
                                            Philippines
                                            Australia
                                            New Zealand

Figure 2. Area distribution key; each rectangle corresponds to a certain area.

It is also known that:
    · Species 3 and 5 share the most recent common ancestor that lived 5 million years ago.
    · Species 2 and 3 share the most recent common ancestor that lived 20 million years ago.
    · Species 5 and 4 share the most recent common ancestor that lived 40 million years ago.
    · The genus to which species 1 belongs has never been found in the Philippines.

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. One of the five listed species is the only representative of its genus.

B. Constructing a phylogenetic tree using this data reveals that species 1 and 4
are the second most closely related among the five species.

C. Some of the five given species belong to the same genus.

D. A migration (in terms of species dispersal) from America to Africa and Eura-
sia is a more parsimonious explanation for the geographic distribution of Strix
compared to a migration in the opposite direction.
@@PAGE 9@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A           Q1-4
                                                   English (Official)

3

Yerzhan studies the evolution of four closely related bacterial strains (A, B, C, D), focusing on RNA poly-
merase subunit  and transposase. He reconstructed phylogenetic trees for the two corresponding
genes that code for these proteins (Figure 1X,Y) using the alignment of four sequences (representative
snapshot is shown on Figure 2) and the most parsimonious solution. He rooted both phylogenies using
the D strain as an outgroup. Unfortunately, he realized that he forgot to properly label the datasets.
Consequently, he began comparing these phylogenetic trees to the reference phylogenetic tree recon-
structed from genes of ribosomal proteins (Figure 1Z).

X                          Y     Z

   C                          A     A

   B                          B     B

   A                          C     C

   D                          D     D

Figure 1. Phylogenetic trees reconstructed from RNA polymerase subunit  (X or Y), trans-
posase (X or Y) and reference genes of ribosomal proteins (Z).

Figure 2. Alignments of representative regions of two genes from four bacteria strains (A-D)

         On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
         ones.

         A. Phylogenetic tree X was reconstructed from the alignment I.

         B. In the Alignment I, 4 out of 5 positions are useful for determining tree's topol-
         ogy.

         C. Phylogenetic tree X was reconstructed from the RNA polymerase subunit .

         D. Using species D as an outgroup, there are in total two possible phylogenetic
         tree topologies for the four species A-D.
@@PAGE 10@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                 Q2-1
                                                                         English (Official)

Cell and Molecular Biology

4

The extracellular pH of normal tissues is typically between 7.35 and 7.45. Meanwhile, in the tumor mi-
croenvironment, extracellular pH is mildly acidic in the range of 6.5­6.9. Figure 1B provides an overview
of the average extracellular pH values observed in different tumor types compared to their respective
normal cells. Cancer cells also exhibit changes in the oxygen consumption rates (OCR). This phenomenon
is demonstrated in Figure 1A by comparing the OCR of normal and cancer cells from three patients.

A                        Normal cells            B        Tumor tissue
                         Cancer cells                     Normal tissue
                                               *                                                   8.0
                                       *                                                      7.8pH
                                                                                         7.6
                          *                                                        7.4Skin
                                                                               7.2Vulvar
                                                                         7.0  Uterus
                                                                    6.8        Lung
                                                               6.6             Breast
                                                          6.4
                                                                               Brain
   Single cell OCR (AU)

                                                                                                        Muscles

                         Patient 1  Patient 2  Patient 3

Figure 1. A Oxygen consumption rates (OCR) in arbitrary units (AU) of normal and cancer
cells. B Extracellular pH of normal tissue and corresponding tumor tissue. Asterix indicates a
significant difference.

                         On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
                         ones.

                         A. Difference in oxygen consumption between cancerous and normal cells in-
                         dicates that tumor cells exhibit decreased metabolic rate.

                         B. Differences in extracellular pH values can be explained by the altered ratio of
                         glucose fermentation to oxidative phosphorylation in cancer cells compared to
                         normal ones.

                         C. The tumor microenvironment is typically hyperoxic due to elevated oxygen
                         consumption by cancer cells.

                         D. The cancer cells of patient 3 are more heterogeneous compared to the cancer
                         cells of the other two patients.
@@PAGE 11@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-2
                                          English (Official)

5

Mutagenesis was performed to determine the effect of single mutations in the binding site of an anti-
body. The mutants were analyzed for binding to four cardiac glycoside molecules: digoxin, digitoxin,
digoxigenin, and ouabain. The binding properties of mutated antibodies were tested by ELISA, a tech-
nique that relies on enzyme-linked antibodies to detect target antigens. After the antibody binds to the
antigen (in our case, glycoside), the enzyme linked to the antibody catalyzes the added substrate, lead-
ing to a color change that can be measured by spectrophotometry at 405 nm. The following heatmaps
represent the ELISA results based on the position of change and the amino acid to which wild-type amino
acid was mutated.

Figure 1. A Binding data of antibodies mutated in the positions described in the figure to the
four glycosides. The absorbance, which correlates to the binding strength of digoxigenin (P),
ouabain (Q), digoxin (R), and digitoxin (S) to the mutated antibodies, was linearly scaled to that
of the wild-type (labeled in red) which was assigned a value of 1.0 (labels of glycosides P, Q, R,
and S should not be confused with the one-letter codes of amino acids). B Differences in the
structure of digoxin (R) and its three analogs. W - sugars.
@@PAGE 12@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-3
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. The strongest binding in position Tyr-33 was for substitution by aromatic
amino acids.

B. In all shown amino acid positions, at least one substitution improves the an-
tibody affinity.

C. Antibody with double substitution Tyr-33-Trp and Trp-100-Arg probably could
be used in cardiac glycoside detection systems.

D. Sugar moieties appear to play a role in the affinities of antibodies to cardiac
glycoside molecules.
@@PAGE 13@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-4
                                          English (Official)

6

The bonds between the central carbon atom and attached groups in peptides can rotate freely. The
rotation angles of the N-C and C-C bonds are called  and  angles, respectively. To measure the
 angle, first draw the C-C bond horizontally so that the N group is at 0 degrees (in the same plane
as the C-C bond). Then rotate the distal N group around the C-C bond until the structure matches
the structure that you aim to measure as shown in Figure 1C. For the  angle, place the N-C bond
horizontally and rotate the distal C group. The Ramachandran plot visually represents the combinations
of  and  angles in a peptide backbone (Figure 1B).

Figure 1. A Part of the peptide with shown  and  angles. B The Ramachandran plot with
the values of  and  angles for all the amino acid residues except Gly in the rabbit's pyruvate
kinase. C The  angle values are created by the rotation. D Three structures of amino acids'
residues.
@@PAGE 14@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-5
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. The structure (a) in Figure 1D is located in Region 2 in Figure 1B.

B. The structure (b) in Figure 1D is located in Region 3 in Figure 1B.

C. The structure (c) in Figure 1D is uncommon in rabbit's pyruvate kinase.

D. Amino acids, other than glycine, with 0 degrees of both  and  angles do
not occur in rabbit's pyruvate kinase.
@@PAGE 15@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-6
                                          English (Official)

7

The Pentose Phosphate Pathway (PPP) is a metabolic pathway occurring in the cytoplasm that mainly
generates NADPH and ribose 5-phosphate. NADPH is used for the reduction of reactive oxygen species
(ROS) such as hydrogen peroxide. PPP has oxidative and non-oxidative phases, which are irreversible
and reversible, respectively.

Figure 1. A Oxidative. B Non-oxidative. G6P ­ glucose 6-phosphate, GA3P ­ glyceralde-
hyde 3-phosphate, F6P ­ fructose 6-phosphate, R5P ­ ribose 5-phosphate, G6PDH ­ glucose
6-phosphate dehydrogenase, TKT ­ transketolase, N - nucleotides. CXP - other intermediates
where X is the position of phosphorylated carbon. Note that all intermediates of PPP are phos-
phorylated on the last carbon.
@@PAGE 16@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-7
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. In actively dividing cells, the reactions occurring before the first TKT-catalyzed
reaction are more active than those occurring later.

B. TKT catalyzes a reaction that transfers a one-carbon fragment.

C. Deficiency of G6PDH activity will reduce the level of available NADPH in red
blood cells.

D. For each molecule of G6P, there will be two molecules of F6P produced
through both phases.
@@PAGE 17@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                               Q2-8
                                                                       English (Official)

8

Certain loci in the genome are influenced by epigenetic modifications, but understanding their precise
mechanisms remains challenging. The IGF2-H19 locus serves as a well-known example, regulated by
the methylation state of the imprinting control region (ICR). In addition to the two genes, this locus
contains one enhancer and four CTCF-binding sites (CTCF is a DNA-binding protein), one of which serves
as an ICR. A proposed model suggests that the spatial interaction among these elements underlies the
regulatory mechanism governing the expression of IGF2 and H19. CTCF binding does not interrupt with
the promoter function.

A          IGF2               B
                                             IGF2

   H19

                                                   H19

C                             Cohesin

           CTCF

D          IGF2               H19      GENES

        1                  2  3             CTCF-BS
                                       4

Figure 1. A Paternal chromosome, IGF2 active (green arrow) and H19 inactive (red arrow). B
Maternal chromosome, IGF2 and H19 basal expression (black arrows). Note that diagrams A
and B reflects real physical distances and that intersection of two blue lines (represeting DNA)
reflects very close physical proximity of two DNA strands. C DNA loop formed by CTCF and
cohesin. D IGF2-H19 locus with CTCF-binding sites 1-4 (CTCF-BS).
@@PAGE 18@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-9
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. One CTCF-binding site can be involved in the formation of only one DNA loop.

B. ICR overlaps with CTCF binding site 2.

C. The enhancer is located between CTCF binding sites 3 and 4.

D. ICR methylation directly affects the expression of H19, independent of the
enhancer.
@@PAGE 19@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-10
                                                    English (Official)

9

Cryo-EM is a modern structural study technique that works by averaging multiple low-quality electron
micrographs, cryo-EM generates high-quality structural maps. It offers flexibility by accommodating
various molecular sizes and capturing multiple conformations. The structure and mechanism of ATAD1,
a mitochondrial homohexamer protein, were resolved using cryo-EM. The protein's function was then
determined using the structural data and fluorescent assays.

Figure 1. A Density map of the average of all conformations obtained by electron microscopy.
B Top view of the molecular model of ATAD1 hexamer emphasizing C-terminal alpha-helices,
with a black curve representing the polypeptide chain substrate. C The structure of the central
pore with its substrate (black) and all interacting amino acids (colored residues). D Fluorescent
microscopy assay for wild-type ATAD1 and with mutation E193Q (at position 193, Glu  Gln),
Gos28 is the hypothetical target, MitoTracker is a mitochondrial fluorescent marker, the red
arrow points to one mitochondrion.
@@PAGE 20@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-11
                                                    English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Given that the density map contains an unclear M6 subunit, at any moment
only one of the ATAD1 subunits is flexible.

B. C-terminal alpha helices shown on the molecular model are made entirely
from hydrophobic amino acids.

C. Change of charge due to mutation E193Q affects the physical interaction of
position 193 with the substrate.

D. ATAD1 translocates proteins mislocalized into the matrix of the mitochondria.
@@PAGE 21@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                  Q2-12
                                                                    English (Official)

10

Magnetotactic bacteria have magnetosomes (magnetite crystals with a lipid membrane) arranged in
a line, helping them find water with suitable oxygen levels in the oxic-anoxic transition zone (OATZ in
Figure 1B). These bacteria are classified into two types: polar, which align their body orientation with the
magnetic field, and axial, which can have two orientations along the magnetic field axis. In the Earth's
Northern and Southern hemispheres, polar bacteria magnetosomes have opposite polarities. To stay in
the OATZ, polar bacteria change the rotation direction of their flagella based on oxygen concentration.

A                          B                          Earth's
                                    Water             magnetic field

                           Depth                      Counter

                                                      Clockwise

                           OATZ

                                           Clockwise

C

                                    Magnetic field

Figure 1. A Magnetotactic bacteria with labeled magnetosomes, the lower image shows the
magnetic field generated. B Northern hemisphere polar bacteria in water, OATZ - suitable
oxygen level. C Experimental setup: water-filled tube with two openings in a magnetic field.
Bacteria start in the anoxic zone (red).

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. Magnetosomes help bacteria find the shortest path toward OATZ.

          B. Polar bacteria from the southern hemisphere should have a clockwise flagella
          rotation when above OATZ.

          C. Axial magnetotactic bacteria will form 2 distinct bands in experimental setup.

          D. Polar magnetotactic bacteria from the southern hemisphere will start a coun-
          terclockwise rotation of flagella when placed into experimental setup.
@@PAGE 22@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                    Q2-13
                                                                      English (Official)

11

Directed evolution is a process that mimics natural selection by artificially applying selective pressure to
organisms to screen and select for a desired phenotype. Directed evolution can be employed in protein
engineering.

The Escherichia coli AL strain was engineered by deleting specific pathways that regenerate NAD+ (Fig-
ure 1). NAD+ regeneration can be restored by introducing a foreign enzyme, referred to as Enzyme D,
which converts an exogenous substrate, not naturally connected to the native metabolic network, into a
non-toxic product using NADH as a cofactor. A library comprising randomized mutants of Enzyme D is
introduced into the engineered E. coli AL strain.

                                 C

A

   D                       NAD+

                           NADH

                                             NADH            NAD+

                                 Pyruvate                    D-Lactate

B                                Acetyl-CoA

                                             NADH

                                                       NAD+
                                 Acetaldehyde

                                                       NADH

   E. coli AL strain

                                             NAD+

                                 Ethanol

Figure 1. A: exogenous substrate present in large intestine; B: library variants of enzyme D; C:
carbon source; D: enzyme D
@@PAGE 23@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-14
                                                    English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Library construction is not required for directed evolution, as Enzyme D can
mutate after selective pressure is applied.

B. Enzyme D is under selective pressure only when the strain AL is growing un-
der aerobic conditions.

C. This method of directed evolution allows for differentiating between variants
of NADH-dependent enzymes with low activity or high activity, in order to select
the variants with the highest activity.

D. E. coli AL strains with variants showing higher activity of Enzyme D have a
better chance of survival in the human large intestine.
@@PAGE 24@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A             Q2-15
                                                               English (Official)

12

A terminal cervical cancer patient arrived at the emergency room and received intravenous therapy and
oxygen, but her condition did not improve. Medical personnel noticed a garlic-like odor, typically caused
by sulfur-containing substances, emanating from her mouth, and white crystals formed in a blood sam-
ple taken from her. Subsequently, the medical staff began losing consciousness and having convulsions.

This 1994 incident at Riverside General Hospital was initially thought to be mass hysteria, later suspicion
fell on DMSO4: prior to admission, the patient had applied excessive amounts of DMSO-based ointments
for analgesic purposes. While DMSO itself is non-toxic to humans, DMSO4 is classified as a warfare agent.
It rapidly undergoes the following reaction:

 4 + 22  23 + 24                                                                       (1)

Figure 1. DMSO, DMSO2, and DMSO4 structures. DMSO4 can be produced by successive oxi-
dation reactions of DMSO and DMSO2.

Compound                        DMSO  DMSO2  DMSO4
Enthalpy of formation (kJ/mol)  -150  -373   -687
Solubility in water (g/L)       150   150    28

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Out of the three involved substances, DMSO2 most probably accounts for
crystals in the collected blood.

B. DMSO can increase the rate of absorption of compounds through biological
membranes.

C. The enthalpies of formation indicate that DMSO can rapidly change into
DMSO2 and then into DMSO4 by being exposed to oxygen at room tempera-
ture.

D. Cervical cancer metastases in the ureters have likely restricted the only path-
way of eliminating DMSO and its derivatives.
@@PAGE 25@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q3-1
                                          English (Official)

Ecology

13

Legumes can fix nitrogen from the air. Anecdotal evidence showed industrial pollution with nitrogen and
other macronutrients making legumes less fit for nitrogen-poor steppes and other grasslands, which
make up half of Kazakhstan.

Figure 1. The graph shows the effect of increased nutrients on the legumes in steppe field plot
study. They had control soil (CTL), as well as soil enriched with N (nitrogen), P (phosphorus),
K+ (potassium), and combinations of these elements. The top row is the normalized change
(NC) after 3 years of treatment, and the bottom row is the NC after 6 years of treatment. Let-
ters represent NC in A) legume cover B) species richness C) biomass of legumes. Black dots
represent a statistically significant difference from control. Whiskers stand for the Standard
Error of Mean (SEM)

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. Potassium coupled with nitrogen has a non-significant effect on legume
          cover.

          B. Legume biomass has the opposite response to changes in soil nutrients after
          3 years and 6 years of treatment.

          C. The graphs support steppe being, in general, a nitrogen-limited ecosystem.

          D. In analogous graphs for non-nitrogen fixing plants, the NC values for
          nitrogen-enriched soil will be positive.
@@PAGE 26@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                                                                                        Q3-2
                                                                                                                                                English (Official)

14

The latitudinal diversity gradient describes a common pattern in the species richness seen in most groups
of organisms whereby there are less species in the temperate regions than in the tropics. Species rich-
ness is lowest at the poles and highest on the equator. The ubiquity of this pattern suggests the possi-
bility of a single general explanation but our understanding of this pattern is incomplete. The current
latitudinal zones arose approximately 45 million years ago, after a period in which the Earth was primarily
tropical. The following three hypotheses (Figure 1A-C) could possibly explain this gradient:

A          B                       C                                                                                             tropics

   tropics                 tropics

   temperate

species                                                                                                                          temperate
   richness
                                                          species
                                                             richness
                                                                                                                    species
                                                                                                                       richness
                           temperate

   time                    time                                                                                                  time

Figure 1. A difference in carrying capacity. B difference in diversification rate. C difference in
the starting point of diversification. Note that in each graph only one factor is changed.

   On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
   ones.

   A. The higher variance in species age in the tropics compared to temperate
   regions is an argument supporting the hypothesis C.

   B. The reappearance of the diversity gradient even after the global ecosystem
   catastrophe would argue against the hypothesis C.

   C. Hypothesis B is supported if greater seasonal variation would increase the
   diversification rate.

   D. The fact that most temperate taxa can be found in the tropics, but not vice
   versa, supports the hypothesis A.
@@PAGE 27@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                        Q3-3
                                                                English (Official)

15

Walker circulation is the model that describes how temperature differences across the Pacific Ocean can
explain local pressure and precipitation:

                warm and dry
                air becomes colder

warm and moist                                   cold and
air rises and                                    dry air
becomes dry                                      sinks

                cold and dry air
                becomes warm and moist

Western                                 Eastern
Pacific                                 Pacific

                Figure 1. Walker Circulation.

Alterations in Walker Circulation are called El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO). This oscillation has 3
phases: Neutral (normal Walker Circulation), El Niño (weak or reversed Walker Circulation), and La Niña
(strong Walker Circulation). Here are some examples of the influence of ENSO on smaller ecosystems:
@@PAGE 28@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                        Q3-4
                                                                                English (Official)

                                                      number/m3  corixids

                                                      mg/m3      grazers

                                    1

                                       0°

                                    2

                                       0°

          1980 1982 1984 1986 1988

Figure 2. Top left: Global context of the smaller ecosystems mentioned. A, B, and C represent
data from the corresponding ecosystems.

Location  Ecosystem/Community                         Changes
A         Great Salt Lake grazers (native species     Ecosystem in years X, Y, and Z
          represented by 4 colors) and corixids (in-
B         vasive freshwater predators)                Size of kangaroo population (in thou-
C         Australian red kangaroo population          sands)
                                                      Two consecutive years (1 and 2); color
          Intertropical Convergence Zone - winds      represents productivity of algae ranging
          blowing the surface of the water cause      from low (blue) to high (red).
          upwelling of deep-nutrient-rich water

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. In neutral Walker Circulation, the Western Pacific has higher terrestrial
          ecosystem productivity than the Eastern Pacific.

          B. Increase in the number of red kangaroos in 1988 was potentially caused by
          El Niño.

          C. C1 shows pre-El Niño year and C2 is El Niño year.

          D. Changes during year Y are probably caused by La Niña.
@@PAGE 29@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                       Q3-5
                                                                               English (Official)

16

Fractal geometry can be illustrated by Mandelbrot's question: How long is the coast of Britain? The
answer depends on the scale of measurement.

Analogously, ecosystems exhibit scale-dependent resource availability. For instance, measuring Admi-
ralty Island's coastline from the perspective of an eagle (using the distance between nests) yields 761
km, whereas considering barnacles (requiring 2 cm of space) results in 11,000 km.

Figure 1B shows the relationship between the coastline length of Admiralty Island and the scale at which
it is measured, as defined by the equation on the graph. A similar relationship exists for the amount of
resources available for a species that operates at a given scale, as well as for its biomass.

A                          B Coastline
                           Length (km)

                                        a
                                                             b

                                                                                         Scale (km)

Figure 1. A Admiralty island. B Log-log graph of resolution (scale) and the length of Admiralty
coastline; a, b - species; Q - resource available or biomass or coastline length, k - constant, L -
scale, d - fractal dimension describing the complexity of the pattern, more complex patterns
correspond to higher values of d.

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. The graph for region 1 will have a steeper slope than the graph for region 2.

          B. The number of individuals in an ecosystem consisting solely of species oper-
          ating at scale b is larger than the number of individuals in an ecosystem con-
          sisting solely of species operating at scale a.

          C. According to this theory, along with a decrease in the number of individuals
          at high trophic levels, all predators should have a larger body size than their
          prey.

          D. Social behavior, such as the formation of herds, influences the scale of per-
          spective.
@@PAGE 30@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                 Q3-6
                                                         English (Official)

17

Water is a common renewable resource on Earth; however, after its use, water loses some of its prop-
erties, such as purity, heat content, and potential energy. While they eventually will be restored, this
happens on a geological timescale. Less than 1% of total water is available for human use ­ renewable
freshwater resources (RFWR) ­ and even from this small fraction of water, only 10% is enough to fulfill the
needs of humanity. While theoretically, there is more than enough water, many regions still experience
a water crisis ­ a lack of accessible RFWR or an inability to utilize available RFWR.

Figure 1. The world map with Rws values.

                             =   -                                               (1)
                                   

                                =                                                (2)
                                   

Equations: Rws - water scarcity index, Aw - water crowding indicator, W - total annual water withdrawal
by population, S - total water use from desalinated water, Q - RFWR, C - population size.

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Higher human activity leads to shorter mean residence time of water
molecules in reservoirs.

B. Low Rws indicates the absence of a water crisis
C. Correlation between Rws and 1/Aw is weaker in regions with poor water in-
frastructure.

D. Food import would be a better long-term solution for the water crisis in dry
regions rather than water import.
@@PAGE 31@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q4-1
                                          English (Official)

Ethology

18

Roads are responsible for habitat fragmentation, impeding wildlife movement via the "Barrier effect,"
which combines direct mortality from collisions with animal avoidance behaviour. Note that animal re-
sponse to moving cars can resemble their reaction to natural danger stimuli. The research identified
four types of animal behavioural responses (see Table 1) based on their perceived danger from traffic.
Each animal species typically exhibits only one of these behavioral responses

Behavior type  Description
Speeders
Avoiders       Their primary response to threats is to flee across the road.

Nonresponders  Avoid the road at much lower traffic volume and remain further from the
Pausers        road than other types

               Do not cease their movement at any level of traffic intensity

               Reduce their speed by freezing, which increases the time spent on the
               roadway

Table 1. Types of animal behavioural responses to traffic. Traffic volume entails the number of vehicles
                                               passing a point on a road segment.
@@PAGE 32@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                         Q4-2
                                                                 English (Official)

                B             M     A

 1 Western barn owls             1 Armadillos

             BM                     B             A

Y                                Y

                   A                           Z
                B                                          M

0            X                   0             X

1 Mule deer                      1 Indiana bats

Y                          A     YB A

                      M                M

0            X                   0             X

Figure 1. The total barrier effect (B, black solid line) from mortality (M, blue dashed line) and
avoidance (A, red dotted line) for the four response categories. X - traffic volume in arbitrary
units. Y - magnitude of the barrier effect in term probability (from 0 to 1).

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Nonresponding behaviour is more likely to exist in top predators of a food
chain.

B. Relative steadiness in the mortality of mule deer after an initial increase dur-
ing low traffic volume is due to the mule deer's road-avoiding behaviour.

C. Point Z indicates the moment when armadillos are more likely to start paus-
ing at the road edge than the road surface

D. Indiana bat is probably a speeder.
@@PAGE 33@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                                  Q4-3
                                                                                          English (Official)

19

Individual progress and subsequent social learning are important aspects of group living. The progres-
sive accumulation of culture within a group over time is called Cumulative Cultural Evolution (CCE). The
following study aimed to investigate the interplay between CCE and collective decision-making. Rock
pigeons (Columba livia) building routes between two distant points were taken as a model system.

A        Experimental pair                  B

                                                  Route efficiency               ** **

                                                           1

                                                        0.8

         Solo control                       0.6                               Experimental
         Pair control                       0.4                               pair
                                            0.2                               Solo control
                                                                              Pair control
                                                        1
   1  6 12 1  6 12 1   6 12 1 6 12 1  6 12                 6 12 1  6 12 1  6 12 1 6 12 1  6 12
      1       2        3    4         5
                                                           1       2       3  4           5
                            Rounds
                                                                              Rounds

         Flight number                                     Flight number

Figure 1. A In solo and pair controls the same birds fly all 60 times while in the experimental
group, one of the birds is replaced every round (12 flights) with a new one. After each round,
the performance on the last flights of the experimental pair and both controls were compared
(** - significant difference). Route efficiency is calculated relative to the straight line connecting
two points. B Change in route efficiency across flights, grouped by rounds.

      On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
      ones.

      A. There is evidence of social learning in the pigeon community.

      B. Comparing the mean performance of each group within each round may lead
      to incorrect interpretations of the experimental results.

      C. In the experimental group, the new pigeon takes an active part in developing
      the route.

      D. Collective decision-making is the main reason for the difference between the
      effectiveness of the routes of the experimental group and control groups.
@@PAGE 34@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q5-1
                                          English (Official)

Genetics and Evolution

20

Imagine a planet inhabited by animal-like creatures capable of both meiosis and mitosis, where the fun-
damental principles of genetics apply. This species is distinguished by two alternating heteromorphic
generations: haploid and diploid.

The haploid (n) generation consists of intelligent beings who dwell in urban environments and form pairs
of sexual partners. In contrast, individuals of the diploid (2n) generation are non-rational and aggressive
and are reared in specialized nurseries. The haploid pairs entrust their offspring to these nurseries,
where the diploid organisms give rise to a new haploid generation.

In one locus of these organisms, there are three alleles: A1 (most dominant) > A2 > A3 (most recessive).
Among the 2n generation, 1% of organisms have the A3 phenotype, 8% have the A2 phenotype, and 91%
have the A1 phenotype.
The entire population is in genetic equilibrium.

                 On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
                 ones.

                 A. Individuals with the A1 phenotype make up more than 75% of the haploid
                 generation.

                 B. There are two possible genotypes for individuals with the A2 phenotype in
                 the 2n generation

                 C. Each haploid organism has one "grandfather" and one "grandmother", from
                 each of which it has exactly 50% of its genetic material.

                 D. When a recessive lethal mutation that blocks mitosis occurs in this gene, it
                 can persist in the population for many generations.
@@PAGE 35@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                           Q5-2
                                                                                   English (Official)

21

The 'Out of Africa' theory postulates that modern humans originated in Africa and subsequently migrated
to different parts of the world. Indeed, large-scale analyses of human genomes strongly support this
theory. An example of such support can be observed in the pronounced negative correlation between
population genetic diversity and distance from East Africa (Figure 1). Effective population size refers to
the size of an idealized population with the same genetic diversity as in the observed population as in
all present genetic diversity within the observed population has been concentrated in a more limited
number of individuals.

Mean heterozygosity                                                 r: -0.91

     0.45 0.50 0.55 0.60 0.65 0.70 0.75  Africa
                                         Europe
                                         Middle East
                                         South Central Asia
                                         East Asia
                                         Oceania
                                         America

                                         5000  10000         15000  20000            25000

                                               Distance to East Africa (kilometers)

Figure 1. Average heterozygosity in humans vs distance from East Africa.
@@PAGE 36@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q5-3
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Populations further away from East Africa have larger long-term average ef-
fective population sizes.

B. A slightly deleterious mutation is less likely to get fixed (frequency = 1) in the
African population compared to the native American population

C. The reduced genetic diversity in non-African populations is likely due to the
founder effect.

D. Figure 1 could represent the heterozygosity of DNA polymerase genes.
@@PAGE 37@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A        Q5-4
                                                English (Official)

22

During the first step of ethanol metabolism in humans, alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) converts ethanol
to toxic acetaldehyde that can accumulate in the body.

ADH1B gene of alcohol dehydrogenase has 2 alleles with varying levels of enzyme activity: ADH1B*2
is associated with rapid alcohol metabolism compared to ADH1B*1. The ADH1B*2 distribution has a
distinct geographical pattern (see Fig.1B).

                              N

1                          2

                              S

                              3

Figure 1. A The historical origins (Areas 1-3) of agriculture emerged 10,000 years BP ("before
present"). B Global contour plot of the ADH1B*2 allele frequency. The red triangles on the
map are points of the data collection.

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false         1.0pt
ones
A. The ancestral allele of the ADH1B gene evolved to degrade high amounts of
exogenous alcohol.

B. ADH1B*2 is likely protective against sustained ethanol abuse.

C. Agriculture in Area 3 has been strongly associated with ethanol production.

D. Based on the given data, it is more plausible that positive selection on the
ADH1B locus occurred independently in Areas 1 and 2 than negative selection
occurred elsewhere.
@@PAGE 38@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                                                                                                 Q5-5
                                                                                                                                                         English (Official)

23

Aizhan studies polymorphism of locus JR_189021 in Drosophila melanogaster that has only two alleles
­ A1 and A2. To study the fitness of genotypes, she runs a long-term evolution experiment with ten
independent populations of 1,000 flies for 150 generations and measures the frequence of allele A1
in each generation (Figure 1). After completing it, she decided to change the population size and run
an experiment using the same setup (Experiment #2). Additionally, she estimated the expected theo-
retical fit using the fitness values of each genotype reported in the literature. The locus is not under
frequency-dependent selection. Assume that homozygous phenotypes are at the extreme of pheno-
typic distribution. Allele and genotype frequencies within a given generation can be assumed to follow
Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium.

Experiment #1                                                                                                                             Experiment #2

Frequency of Allele A1
                                                                                                                  Frequency of Allele A1

Generation                                                                                                                                Generation

Figure 1. The frequency of allele A1 across 150 generations in experiments #1 and #2. Each
curve represents a different replicate, while the dashed line is the theoretical fit of all ten pop-
ulations.

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. In the long term, the locus is under the directional selection.

B. For experiment #2, Aizhan increased the population size.

C. Flies with the A1A2 genotype have the highest fitness.

D. Flies with the A1A1 genotype have higher fitness than flies with the A2A2
genotype.
@@PAGE 39@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                     Q5-6
                                                             English (Official)

24

While central dogma claims that synonymous substitutions (which do not change the primary sequence
of the polypeptide) do not have any effect on protein sequence and its cellular function, codons are not
used to the same extent in the vast majority of sequenced genomes. This is known as the codon usage
bias. For example, among four codons that encode glycine in Escherichia coli, GGU and GGC have higher
abundance than GGA and GGG codons. The primary driver for such unequal codon usage is to match
the available pool of tRNA molecules.

                 On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
                 ones.

A. Protein coding genes that are involved in ribosomal assembly have very high
codon usage bias.

B. Transgenic material that was not corrected for codon usage bias of the recip-
ient's genome will have lower translational efficiency relative to the corrected
one.

C. Codon usage bias is not found in viruses.

D. Methionine will have one of the strongest codon usage biases because it is
always the first amino acid in the protein.
@@PAGE 40@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A        Q5-7
                                                English (Official)

25

Mitochondrial RNase P is an endonuclease composed of three subunits (Figure 1B). Mutations in this
enzyme are often associated with the development of combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency
syndrome (COXPD54) in humans. The figures below show various information regarding RNase P and
its mutations.

C                             X  Y
      Human
      Chimpanzee           Z
      Mouse
      Rat
      Zebrafish
      Drosophila

      Human
      Chimpanzee
      Mouse
      Rat
      Zebrafish
      Drosophila

Figure 1. A1 & A2 are pedigrees of two families showing distinct missense mutations resulting
in the COXPD54 syndrome in shaded individuals; mutation X for A1 and mutation Y for A2.
B RNase P subunits; (MTS - mitochondrial targeting sequence). C Alignment results of the
RNase peptide segment across various organisms. Positions affected by the mutations are
highlighted in orange boxes. The mutations leading to COXPD54 syndrome are Tyr (Y)  His
(H) in position X; Thr (T)  Ala (A) in position Y; Ala (A)  Val (V) in position Z.

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Within the primary structure, it can be assumed that the mutation at position
X is located closer to the active site of the enzyme than the mutation at position
Z.

B. Mutation at position Y involves transversion (purine to pyrimidine change).

C. All of the RNase P subunits assemble within the cytoplasm before being trans-
ported into the mitochondrion.

D. Knowing that individual II-3 (A1) is the carrier of mutation at position X, the
probability of the couple II-3 (A1) and II-2 (A2) having a child with the syndrome
is 1/6. (Assume Mendelian inheritance.)
@@PAGE 41@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                      Q5-8
                                                                              English (Official)

26

Mass extinctions occur when environmental changes outpace rates of species adaptation. One way to
quantify this change is by measuring the addition of inorganic carbon to oceans over time. Significant
changes in the flux between inorganic and organic carbon reservoirs are termed carbon cycle pertur-
bation events. Mass change measures the magnitude of change in inorganic carbon mass in oceans.
Another quantifying metric of a carbon cycle, isotopic shift measures the change in carbon isotopic
composition during the event.

In the last 220 million years, the biological pump, which transports organic carbon and calcium carbonate
from the ocean's surface to the deep sea, has significantly strengthened.

A                                      B

   Isotopic                               Mass
      shift (a.u.)                           change (a.u.)

                     Event                              Event
                     duration (years)                   duration (a.u.)
C
                                       D

   Mass                                   Event
      change (a.u.)                          duration (years)

                     Date (my)                                 Date (my)

Figure 1. Carbon-shifting processes plots.

A Isotopic shift vs Event duration. B Mass change vs Event duration. Gray shaded area
around the line represents error margin of the fit line. C Mass change vs Date. D Event
duration vs Date; my - million years, a.u. - arbitrary units; Red dots: events considered as
mass extinctions. Blue dots: other carbon perturbation events. Units may differ between
graphs. Note that mass extinction events are not included in graph D.
@@PAGE 42@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q5-9
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. One of the mass extinction events is likely caused by mechanisms distinct
from those seen in other events.

B. The lack of information about minor events that happened early in Earth's
history alone can explain the trend in Graph C.

C. The line in Graph B represents a critical threshold, above which a carbon
perturbation event is likely to be associated with extinction catastrophe.

D. A more efficient biological pump results in smaller and shorter carbon per-
turbation events.
@@PAGE 43@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                       Q5-10
                                                                         English (Official)

27

Five mutations in beta-lactamase can significantly affect its ability to degrade third-generation antibiotics
like cefotaxime: Mut1, Mut2, Mut3, Mut4, Mut5. Since they can appear in any order there are 5! (=120)
potential trajectories of resistance development. However, only 18 of them are evolutionarily accessible.
The term "evolutionarily accessible" refers to the ability of a particular mutational pathway to produce
an advantageous phenotype during the evolution. Implications from this simple model could be used to
understand the evolution of more complex traits.

A                                      B  Cumulative probability

         0.13  1.41  2050  2900           1.00
         1.41  362   362   1650           0.75

   0.09                          4100

                                          0.50

   Mut1        22.6  362   2050

   Mut2                                   0.25
   Mut3
               32.0  362

   Mut4                                   0.00
   Mut5              362

                                                Trajectory

Figure 1. A Graph showing the ten most probable trajectories leading from wild-type beta-
lactamase (BL(WT)) to an improved version (BL*), the efficiency of each phenotype indicated on
the node. Colored arrows represent the five potential mutations. B The cumulative probability
of each of the 18 possible trajectories.

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. Some mutations require additional mutations to have a significant effect.

          B. The trajectories 1-18 (Figure 1B) are arranged based on the increasing prob-
          ability of occurrence.

          C. A mutation's effect on fitness influences the probability of this specific muta-
          tion occurring.

          D. The final fitness of the trajectory is the primary factor affecting the evolution-
          ary accessibility of the trajectory.
@@PAGE 44@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                      Q5-11
                                                                        English (Official)

28

Mutations have different effects ranging from strongly deleterious to highly adaptive. The frequency,
with which a particular mutation appears de novo, is described by the fundamental property of each
species - distribution of fitness effects (DFE). There are two direct methods of finding DFE: induce mu-
tations and check the fitness of each mutation or prepare mutation accumulation lines and compare
their fitness distribution with the initial line. DFE can also be inferred indirectly from sequencing data
that compares rates of non-synonymous (N) and synonymous (S) substitutions using the dN/dS ratio
between different species.

                           Preserved ancestor
                           line

Ancestor                   Gen 1  Gen 2        Gen N
line

Figure 1. Scheme of mutation accumulation line experiment.

                            ×  < 1                                                (1)

(1) mutations with s satisfying this inequality are called effectively neutral. Ne - effective population size;
s - absolute value of strength of selection.

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Individual effectively neutral mutations are fixed only due to genetic drift.

B. Species with large Ne have higher adaptability.

C. The mutation accumulation line method always underestimates the fre-
quency of deleterious mutations.

D. dN/dS is proportional to the ratio of deleterious mutations.
@@PAGE 45@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                     Q5-12
                                                                       English (Official)

29

Retroviruses are RNA viruses that have RNA to DNA reverse transcription steps in their life cycle. Some
can become endogenous retroviruses (ERVs), where they integrate into the host genome and become
heritable. Retrotransposons are genetic elements that can spread over the genome using RNA inter-
mediate for translocation. There is some evolutionary relationship between retrotransposons and ERVs.
ERVs and retrotransposons are valuable parts of our genome that provide extra genetic material for
evolution.

A     5'-LTR     gag       pro           pol  env  3'-LTR

B     5'-LTR     3'-LTR

C     Frequency                               Beneficial ERV
      in population                           Deleterious ERV
100%                                          X

      Thousands                Millions
      of years                 of years

                 Time

Figure 1. A Common structure of ERV, LTR - identical long terminal repeats, gag - virion struc-
tural protein, pro - viral protease necessary for virion maturation, pol - reverse transcriptase,
env - glycoprotein envelope protein. B Solo-LTR (empty ERV derivative). C Changes in frequen-
cies of beneficial and deleterious ERVs after many generations.
@@PAGE 46@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q5-13
                                                    English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Whether or not the provirus will become an ERV depends on the type of cells
infected by the retrovirus.

B. ERV should lose at least two genes to no longer be a virus.

C. Solo-LTRs are the least common type of ERV derivatives found in the genome.

D. If an ERV encodes a restriction factor preventing entry of a species-specific
exogenous retrovirus, it can have an evolutionary history depicted by line X.
@@PAGE 47@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A     Q6-1
                                             English (Official)

Plant Anatomy and Physiology

30

Gibberellin, an essential phytohormone responsible for cell wall suberization, undergoes complex trans-
port within plants involving a variety of transporters. Below are figures depicting results from studies on
different membrane transporters of gibberellin.

Figure 1. A Fluorescence intensity (Y) of root endodermal cells in grafted plants (X, root/shoot).
Samples were treated with a fluorescent marker for suberin (Nile red); asterisks indicate a
significant difference from the wild type. Col-O - wild type, ga1-3 - mutant lacking gibberellin
synthesis, npf__ - mutants lacking expression of a specific type of transporter(s). B Cytoplasmic
(I) and vacuolar (II) concentrations of gibberellin (arbitrary units) in the root.

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. Transport of gibberellins occurs in the following direction: root  shoot.

          B. Vacuoles of the pericycle cells are involved in the regulation of threshold val-
          ues of gibberellin concentration.

          C. The npf3.1 mutant is vulnerable to water and mineral imbalances, as well as
          toxins, compared to wild type.

          D. All the transporters listed are located on the plasma membrane.
@@PAGE 48@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q6-2
                                          English (Official)

31

During the Calvin Cycle, carbon dioxide is fixed by RuBisCo, an enzyme in plants. However, RuBisCo can
also catalyze reactions with oxygen, which disrupts the photosynthesis.

Photorespiration is a process of recovering ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP, the RuBisCo substrate)
from products of RuBisCo oxygenation. Recent studies suggest it plays a significant role in NADH gen-
eration, managing the metabolic toxin 2-phosphoglycolate (2-PG), and connecting photosynthesis to
nutrient assimilation and abiotic stress response pathways.

                           Ser  GLUCONEOGENESIS

Figure 1. A schematic of photorespiration. When overexpressed, the enzyme in dark green
(square) increases the rate of reactions, the enzyme in orange (stars) does not affect it, and
the enzyme in magenta (circle) slows it down. GDC = Glycine decarboxylase. C = chloroplast,
P = peroxisome, M = mitochondrion.

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. If GDC was inhibited, the cell could still recover the RuBP lost to photorespi-
          ration through gluconeogenesis.

          B. Rising atmospheric carbon dioxide alone should increase need for photores-
          piration.

          C. If all shown peroxisome enzymes were overexpressed, photorespiration
          would take less time per cycle compared to the wild type.

          D. C4 plants rely less on photorespiration than C3 plants.
@@PAGE 49@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q6-3
                                          English (Official)

32

Poaceae (grass family) stomata have a "dumbbell" shape and a stronger connection between guard and
subsidiary cells. Due to this adaptation, they respond to stimuli faster than non-Poaceae stomata. Specif-
ically, alternating hyperpolarization (H) and depolarization (D) of cell membranes allow well-synced os-
motic flow by activating the ion channels, as shown in Figure 1. Non-Poaceae stomata do not sync this
closely.

Due to the advanced geometry of Poaceae stomata, subsidiary cells actually lose turgor when guard cells
gain it, and vice versa. That leads to the widest possible open pore, as the subsidiary cell "bends inward"
to accommodate the growing guard cell.

Figure 1. A) Schematic representation of Poaceae stomata synchronization mechanism. Guard
cells are GC, and subsidiary cells are SC on the diagram. Question marks imply the effect has
only partially been verified; blue H2O cylinders are aquaporins. B) Highlighted micrograph of
a Poaceae (i) and non-Poaceae (ii) stomata.
@@PAGE 50@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q6-4
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. An electric pulse from an electrode connected to the stomata is able to both
open and close it.

B. Poaceae stomata would react to environmental stimuli quicker if subsidiary
cells' cell walls are reinforced with lignin.

C. Continuosly potassium-deficient plants would have a larger maximum open
stomatal pore area.

D. Increased expression of aquaporins would only affect the rate of open-
ing/closing.

33

Xanthophylls are yellow-orange colored and fat-soluble photoprotective pigments. This is likely an adap-
tation to the unforgiving sunlight in dry ecosystems. As excess light leads to the accumulation of protons
in the thylakoid's lumen, this lower pH triggers a transformation of precursors (Pre-Z) into zeaxanthin
(Z). All of them are xanthophylls.

When protonated, Z changes the conformation of photosystem II to dissipate extra light energy as heat.
Reduced ascorbate is a cofactor for de-epoxidase, the enzyme that catalyzes the Pre-ZZ reactions.

Figure 1. A diagram of the thylakoid membrane, where S ­ stroma, L ­ lumen, E ­ epoxidase,
DE ­ de-epoxidase, PSII ­ photosystem II, C6H7O6­ ­ ascorbate, red wavy arrows ­ heat, and
green arrows with the plus sign ­ activation.
@@PAGE 51@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q6-5
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Sun-tolerant plants with the deleted de-epoxidase gene will exhibit shade
preference instead.

B. A temperate steppe shrub population will have higher xanthophyll leaf con-
tent as compared to a forest understory shrub of the same species.

C. The hot and sunny subtropical climate would lead to higher total xanthophyll
concentrations in thylakoids compared to a colder sunny climate.

D. If you have Vitamin C/ascorbate deficiency, you should eat leaves from the
top of the canopy rather than the bottom.
@@PAGE 52@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q6-6
                                          English (Official)

34

After producing C3 sugars in the Calvin Cycle, plant cells can further produce other carbohydrates for
structural growth, starch, and soluble carbohydrates. Discounting their structural use, the allocation of
sugars between starch and soluble carbohydrates within the leaf can be used to assess the yield potential
of crop plants.

Researchers looked into the change in the ratio of starch to soluble sugars between different growing
stages across three different breeds of maize (Zea mays). They look into the leaf carbohydrates during
two vegetative and one reproductive stages. During the latter, the fast-growing kernels require large
amounts of carbohydrates, making them suitable for future human consumption.

Figure 1. S ­ starch concentration in leaves, TSC ­ total soluble carbohydrate concentration in
leaves. t ­ hour of the day. A, B, and C are plots for two vegetative stages and the reproductive
stage respectively. Different shapes represent the three cultivars.

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. Photosynthesis begins only after 9 am based on the given graphs.

          B. Higher peak TSC levels during the reproductive stage compared to vegetative
          stages can be explained by kernel growth.

          C. The difference between TSC concentrations at 6h and 24h partially comes
          from cellular respiration.

          D. In the context of selecting for bigger seeds, lower leaf starch content is a
          detrimental trait.
@@PAGE 53@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q6-7
                                          English (Official)

35

Fluid dynamics put an upper limit on how high a tree's water column might exist, and above that limit,
water transport in the xylem will be disrupted. However, trees similar to Californian redwoods routinely
grow above this limit. Scientists studied Californian Sequoia sempervirens from the alluvial flood plain and
Sequoiadendron giganteum from the mountain slopes with most likely dry soil. Xylem adaptations have
higher water and carbon cost upfront than stomatal adaptations, but allow plants to transpire more.

Figure 1. Plots like the one above condense many variables like leaf conductance and wood
density into two categories. Low PC2 values correspond to more efficient stomatal water use,
and high PC2 to more efficient xylem water use. PC3 values are inversely proportional to leaf
mass and wood density. The bigger the symbol, the taller is that particular tree. Middle-size
symbols are a different shape to make telling apart easier.

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. S. giganteum wood is on average denser than S. sempervirens wood.

          B. Short S. sempervirens trees are more adapted to resist xylem blockage.

          C. S. giganteum might have higher PC2 scores if it is irrigated for several gener-
          ations.

          D. S. sempervirens wood density has a strong negative correlation with height.
@@PAGE 54@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q6-8
                                          English (Official)

36

Aquatic carbon primarily exists in the dissolved form, and due to the formation of H2CO3 (carbonic acid),
there are three main species ­ H2CO3, HCO3-, and CO32-. Despite that, Rubisco only uses CO2 as the
carbon source.

The oceanic pH is around 8, and freshwater pH is around 7. Generally for aquatic plants, epidermal
cells take up carbon directly, but diffusion is significantly slower in water than in air. Plants can uptake
HCO3- faster than CO2. Some plants use intracellular carbonic anhydrase as a quicker carbon sourcing
mechanism.

Figure 1. Reaction for which carbonic anhydrase (CA) is the catalyst. Percent concentration
(Mol(%)) of three types of dissolved carbon against water pH. The two lines are the boundaries
separating three types.

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. Fully submerged aquatic plants are likely to have thicker cuticle.
          B. Aquatic plants have adapted to the oceanic pH range by using HCO3- as a
          CO2 source.
          C. In stationary freshwater, releasing protons from the epidermis might aid CO2
          intake.

          D. Plants that use carbonic anhydrase have Rubisco with higher CO2 fixation
          efficiency than plants that directly use CO2.
@@PAGE 55@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q6-9
                                          English (Official)

37

Figure 1 provides a schematic representation of one eudicot plant's growing root. It illustrates, through
red arrows, the pathway of water solution movement within a healthy plant under optimal conditions.

Assume that the water solution inside the cells of the B zone has an osmolarity of 0.3 osmoles per liter
(Osm/L).

Figure 1. Diagram of a plant root; Zone A - soil, Zones B and C - parts of the root.

 On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
 ones.

 A. All molecules of water cross through the plasma membrane to enter zone B
 from zone A.

 B. In a healthy plant and under natural conditions, the concentration of free
 water molecules in zone B is greater than in zone A.

 C. During a flood, certain plants experience cellular death in zone B. This process
 results in the formation of voids.

 D. If we clean the roots of this plant and place them in a 0.2 molar NaCl solution,
 the cells in zone B will begin to lose water.
@@PAGE 56@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                           Q7-1
                                                                   English (Official)

Animal Anatomy and Physiology

38

An electrocardiogram (ECG) records the heart's electrical activity using electrodes on the skin. Leads I, II,
and III form Einthoven's triangle and provide key views of the heart's electrical axis by measuring voltage
differences between the limbs. Lead I measures between the right and left arms, Lead II between the
right arm and left leg, and Lead III between the left arm and left leg. In modern diagnostic medicine, 12
leads are used for a more comprehensive analysis of the heart's activity.

AI         P               Q     R  S               T

   II III

B          R                        C mV               1
                                              +20
                                                 0            ms

   1 mV P                     T                -90         3
                                                    2
           QS

Figure 1. A Leads I, II, and III form Einthoven's triangle with red vectors showing the heart's
mean current direction and amplitude. B ECG measurements along lead II with P wave, QRS
complex, and T wave. C Membrane potential of cardiomyocytes from different heart regions
during the cardiac cycle.

   On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
   ones.

   A. Graph 2 in Figure 1C was registered in a cardiomyocyte from the sinoatrial
   node.

   B. Full atrioventricular node blockade would result in only the P wave being
   visible.

   C. The S wave represents repolarization.

   D. The amplitude of the P wave in Figure 1A is larger in the lead II than in the
   lead III.
@@PAGE 57@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-2
                                          English (Official)

39

Snow leopards (Panthera uncia) inhabit high-altitude areas in East and South Kazakhstan and are
known to hyperventilate. To examine possible differences in the oxygenation properties of big cats'
hemoglobins (Hbs), O2-equilibrium curves were measured for purified HbA and HbB isoforms of African
lion and snow leopard hemoglobin under standardized conditions of pH and anion concentrations.
Furthermore, the effects of KCl and DPG were also analyzed. KCl and DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) are
allosteric cofactors of hemoglobin.

Figure 1. Hb­O2 equilibrium curves of African lion (A) and snow leopard (B) compared with
those of human adult Hb. Triangles ­ DPG-added, circles ­ DPG-free; Black-filled shapes ­ HbA,
gray-filled shapes ­ HbB, white-filled shapes ­ human adult Hb, FS - fractional saturation (ratio
of Hb­O2 to total Hb). C shows the changes in P50 values from DPG-free Hb with the addition of
KCl or DPG (P50 is the oxygen partial pressure when hemoglobin is 50% saturated with oxygen).
1 ­ African Lion and 2 ­ Snow Leopard.

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. DPG has a stronger allosteric effect on hemoglobin in snow leopards than in
          humans.

          B. Renal compensation stimulates snow leopards inhabiting high-altitude areas
          to excrete more bicarbonate (HCO3-) than those inhabiting lowland areas.

          C. The hemoglobin of snow leopards is specifically adapted to low oxygen partial
          pressure.

          D. KCl causes a stronger increase in affinity to oxygen in African lion's HbA than
          in snow leopard's HbB.
@@PAGE 58@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-3
                                          English (Official)

40

In a study examining the behavioral activity of mice and its dependence on feeding time, mice were kept
on a 12-hour light/12-hour dark cycle. They were divided into two groups: one that was fed only during
the light phase, and the other that was fed with the same diet only during the dark phase. The locomotor
activity and calorie intake (Figure 1) together with the body temperature (Figure 2) were measured for
mice.

Figure 1. A ­ weekly locomotor activity counts, C ­ caloric intake in kcal, W ­ time in weeks, DA
­ dark-fed mice activity, LA ­ light-fed mice activity, DC ­ dark-fed mice calories, LC ­ light-fed
mice calories.
@@PAGE 59@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-4
                                          English (Official)

Figure 2. Recordings of body temperature of the two mice groups fed during the light (A) for
5 days and dark (B) for 7 days phases. The feeding periods are indicated by solid bars on top
of the panels. The dark phases are depicted in blue.

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. We can expect light-fed mice to have higher body weight than dark-fed mice.

          B. Night-time feeding is an example of circadian-behavior misalignment in
          mice.

          C. Night-time feeding altered the circadian body temperature range stronger
          than light-time feeding.

          D. It can be concluded that the decrease in locomotor activity in light-fed mice
          occurs due to reduced calorie intake.
@@PAGE 60@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-5
                                          English (Official)

41

In Octopus laqueus, two distinct sleep stages are observed: active (AS) and quiet (QS). Active sleep is
marked by active bouts, which include only specific body and eye movements along with transitions in
skin patterns, occurring between periods of quiet sleep. There are potential parallels between verte-
brates' non-REM and REM (Rapid Eye Movement) sleep phases and octopuses' QS and AS stages, respec-
tively. Researchers measured the occurrence of active bouts in the group of octopuses during the day
and night and in the interrupted conditions as seen in Figure 1.

Figure 1. A Average number of active bouts per hour over 36 hours before (Q) and after (R)
2-day sleep deprivation (darkness is depicted in gray background areas). B Probability of the
next bout (Y-axis) occurring N minutes after (X-axis) a normal (S) or interrupted (T) bout. C
Active bouts per hour (Y-axis) during 3 days of constant darkness (darkness is depicted in gray
background areas).

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. Bouts are more likely to be controlled by internal circadian mechanisms than
          by external environmental signals.

          B. On average, octopuses of this species have 8 active bouts per night.

          C. The data shows that sleep deprivation in this octopus species increases the
          average duration of an active bout.

          D. Active bouts can be replenished if they do not occur in the normal amount.
@@PAGE 61@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A               Q7-6
                                                       English (Official)

42

Electric eels (Electrophorus electricus) are predatory fish that utilize electrical and mechanical signals dur-
ing hunting. They emit two types of electrical impulses: low-voltage, which induces sudden muscle con-
traction of the prey, and high-voltage, which paralyzes the prey, aiding in capture and consumption.

Electrode                  Eel
                                                     Electrode
                                                                Transparent
                                                                  divider

                                        Non-conductive
                                        rod

                           Fish corpse

           Plastic bag

           Figure 1. Experiment setup; black arrow - conductive rod.

In the experiment conducted for studying electrolocation mechanisms of eels, a container with two com-
partments was used, as shown in Figure 1. The lower compartment contained an isolated fresh fish
corpse attached to electrodes, connecting it to the upper compartment's environment. Additionally,
several electrically non-conductive rods and one conductive rod were placed beneath the transparent,
perforated divider.

Results of the experiment indicated that upon placement in the container, the eel began attacking the
conductive rod, but not the fish corpse (Figure 2). Assume that the fish corpse was supplied with a
sufficient amount of ATP.

Figure 2. A Impulses recorded from the upper compartment (x-axis - time, y-axis - voltage);
LW - low voltage impulse, HW - high voltage impulse. B Frames shot form the experiment (BV
- bottom view, SV - side view); black arrow - conductive rod, red arrow - attack. The fish corpse
is highlighted in red.
@@PAGE 62@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-7
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Only low-voltage impulses are required for prey electrolocation.

B. The divider blocked the movement of water between the compartments.

C. The first frame in Figure 2B was taken before the corpse began to contract.

D. Eels prefer to rely on their mechanoreceptors rather than electroreceptors
when localizing the exact location of their prey.
@@PAGE 63@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-8
                                          English (Official)

43

Saigas (Saiga tatarica) are herding antelopes that have an enlarged nasal cavity. Figure 1 below shows
computed tomographic (CT) sections of their head.

Figure 1. Internal structures of the saiga head in successive CT transverse sections. J - lateral
view of the skull to show the levels of the sections shown in A­I.
@@PAGE 64@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-9
                                          English (Official)

The main natural enemy of saigas is the wolf. However, in open areas, saigas are not afraid of wolves

because of difference in their running speeds: saigas ­ 75-80 km/h, wolves ­ 40-45 km/h. At the same
time, the weight load per 1 cm2 for the saiga is 500 grams, while it is 160 grams for the wolf.

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. The bones at sections A-I correspond only to the darkest areas.

B. Linear flow rate of air in the nostrils ("n" in figure A) is lower than the linear
flow rate of air in the nasal cavity (vn) in section C.

C. The main function of the structure "wy" in figures (D) and (E) is to remove dust
particles from the air.

D. Wolves hunt saigas more successfully in summer than in the snowy winter.
@@PAGE 65@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-10
                                                    English (Official)

44

Approximately 50% of epididymal sperm express Toll-like receptors 7/8 (TLR7/8), which are encoded on
the X chromosome. The researchers investigated the effects of their activation in mice sperm cells by a
specific ligand - R848. To do that they performed several experiments consisting of a swim-up method
and in vitro fertilization (IVF). The obtained data is presented below.

Figure 1. Swim-up method - technique designed to sort spermatozoa by motility and the ca-
pability to swim upwards in the tube out of the seminal plasma; U - upper layer, L - lower layer.

Figure 2. A Comparison of straight-line velocity (VSL) of spermatozoa in different glucose con-
centrations (mM) without (C) and with (R) R848. '*' - significant difference between C and R.
B Distribution of X chromosome- and Y chromosome-bearing spermatozoa in the upper layer
without (Ct.) and with R848. C Comparison of sex of the embryos obtained from IVF with un-
treated sperm cells (Ct.) in contrast to sperm cells from the upper (U) and lower (L) layers of
the swim-up test tube separated after treatment with R848.
@@PAGE 66@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-11
                                                    English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Activation of TLR7/8 on sperm cells increases their motility.

B. Following IVF using the high-mobility sperm, more than 80% of the embryos
were XY.

C. Ligand activation of TLR7/8 together with the swim-up method could be used
to sort X chromosome- and Y chromosome-bearing sperm cells.

D. The significant effect of the TLR7/8 activation on sperm motility is observed
only in the presence of glucose.
@@PAGE 67@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-12
                                                    English (Official)

45

To create vascularised tissue in vitro, transgenic rat cardiac cells expressing luciferase were co-cultured
with or without endothelial cells (EC) and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2). Luciferase - an enzyme that
catalyzes the reaction of luciferin to emit bioluminescent light. To mimic in vivo conditions, the newly
created cardiac tissue was placed on a vascular bed to ensure a media supply (Figure 1A). Media supply
through the new blood vessels was assessed via fluorescence antibody staining for EC (Figure 1B). Then,
luciferin was infused from the vascular bed side, and bioluminescence was measured in the cardiac cells
(Figure 1C).

Figure 1. A 1 - EC co-cultured cardiac cell sheet, 2 - cardiac cells, 3 - endothelial cells, 4 - lay-
ered cell sheets, 5 - cell sheets overlaid on a vascular bed, 6 - organised vascular network. B
White arrows show EC; CS - cell sheet, VB - vascular bed. C X - Time (min), Y - Bioluminescence
(photons per second).
@@PAGE 68@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-13
                                                    English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Endothelial cell co-culturing increases the development of blood vessels in
tissue.

B. FGF-2 inhibits the migration and proliferation of endothelial cells.

C. Assuming identical proliferation rates across all tissues, EC(-) FGF(+) tissues
demonstrate higher cell survival compared to EC(+) FGF(-) tissues.

D. The high rate of bioluminescence for EC(+) FGF(+), can be explained mainly
by direct diffusion of the media from the vascular bed through the tissue layers.
@@PAGE 69@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-14
                                                    English (Official)

46

The discovery of light-gated cation channels quickly led to the development of new tools and applications,
notably the optical control of neural activity using algal channel rhodopsin-2 (ChR2).

Viral vectors were used to express ChR2 in rat hippocampal neurons, and ChR2 membrane localization
was observed. A series of experiments was conducted to investigate the properties of these transduced
cells, and the resulting data are presented below.

Figure 1. A Voltage traces and spikes in a hippocampal neuron evoked by 1-second periods
of light (4 repeated experiments). B Voltage traces showing subthreshold depolarizations in
response to light pulses. C Voltage traces in response to brief light pulse series. Bars below
the records indicate light pulses.
@@PAGE 70@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-15
                                                    English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. During steady illumination, the consistency of spikes is limited by the neu-
ron's action potential firing frequency limit.

B. There is no action potential initiated during the fourth stimulation in C1 due
to the absolute refractory period of the neuron.

C. Light-induced depolarization would happen regardless of whether ChR2 is
selective for sodium alone or both sodium and potassium.

D. Consistent induction of subthreshold depolarizations, compared to action
potentials, requires more precise tuning of the light pulse length.
@@PAGE 71@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-16
                                                    English (Official)

47

The efficiency of animal locomotion can be expressed in terms of the cost of transport (COT), derived
from oxygen consumption versus velocity data. The oxygen consumption plot represents the amount of
energy required to achieve and maintain a certain speed. COT represents how efficiently an organism
can cover a unit distance at a certain speed, and generally has the same trendline shape among different
animals and different gaits of the single animal species.

O2 consumption
(mg of O2 / [min/kg])

                                           Velocity (m/s)

                          Figure 1. Oxygen consumption versus velocity graph for cod (fish).

                                    COT =  +  +  2
                                    Coefficients for cod: a = 0.17; b = -0.22; c = 0.14.
Table 1. Trendline equation for COT (V is in km/h) and list of coefficients suiting data obtained from cod.

                 On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
                 ones.
                 A. Flying birds would have a lower oxygen consumption at minimum moving
                 speed on oxygen consumption versus velocity graph than a cod of comparable
                 size.
                 B. The minimum possible COT of the cod is achieved at 0.6 km/h.
                 C. If you sample the speeds at which a large population of horses move during
                 the week, you would see that all speeds fall within a single, narrow range.
                 D. For animals that run, the oxygen consumption versus velocity plot for run-
                 ning would be more linear than the cod's.
@@PAGE 72@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                       Q7-17
                                                                         English (Official)

48

During pulmonary function tests, tidal volume, inspiratory reserve volume, and expiratory reserve vol-
ume can be measured directly, but not residual volume (RV). The helium dilution technique estimates
RV (Figure 1), by recording Vsf (final spirometer volume) and C2 (final helium concentration). The initial
spirometer volume is 5L with 10% helium. Helium is not exchanged in the lungs, i.e. not absorbed into
the blood.

A

B LUNGS                                  Vs

                                    SPIROMETER

                                          Vsf

                 LUNGS              SPIROMETER

Figure 1. A In the first stage, the patient is attached to the spirometer after regular expiration
and then breathes several times to establish helium equilibrium. Vs - initial spirometer volume.
B The patient performs a full forced expiration, and the spirometer is detached.

Patients                   Vsf (L)  C2 (%)
Healthy control            6.1      6.8
1                          5.6      6.5
2                          5.6      8

Table 1. Results of the helium dilution test for two male patients and one male control.

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Vsf equals to Vs plus expiratory reserve volume.

B. Patient 2 has an RV of 750 ml.

C. Given that inspiratory capacity is constant for Patient 1, the increase in RV
with respect to the healthy control can be explained by an increase in lung vol-
ume.

D. A patient with a single-lung pneumothorax, causing incomplete lung col-
lapse, would likely have results similar to Patient 2.
@@PAGE 73@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A                          Q7-18
                                                                            English (Official)

49

Esophageal Doppler Monitoring (EDM) is a minimally invasive method to measure blood flow in the aorta
and assess cardiac output. A Doppler probe is inserted into the esophagus near the aorta. The principle
behind the measurement is the detection of changes in frequency (Doppler shift) of ultrasound waves
reflected by moving red blood cells. Using the Doppler effect, described by the following equation, the
probe calculates blood flow velocity.

                                =  20 cos                                                     (1)
                                        

where

                  
                   2
          cos  =  2        ,    =  1540m/s,  0  =  4  MHz                                     (2)

The resulting waveform provides important data on heart function, such as stroke volume and cardiac
output, which helps guide clinical decisions in real-time.

       A                      2.5 cm Aorta

                                   Oesophagus

                                                Probe

       B       Velocity
               (cm/s)

          100

                                                 Time (s)

          0 1/3 2/3 1 4/3 5/3

Figure 1. A Placement of the Doppler probe in the esophagus near the aorta to measure blood
flow velocity (red arrow). B Doppler waveform showing linear blood velocity (cm/s) over time
(s), with a peak systolic velocity of 100 cm/s. The area under the curve shows the distance
traveled by blood.
@@PAGE 74@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-19
                                                    English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Tachycardia decreases the intervals between waveforms on the velocity-time
graph.

B. Without any compensation from the heart, high arterial resistance increases
peak velocity.

C. If the largest frequency shift observed for a patient was 4.4 kHz, their peak
velocity is around 120 cm/s

D. According to Figure 1B and 1A, a person's heart ejects 4.9 L of blood per
minute.
@@PAGE 75@@
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-20
                                                    English (Official)

50

The countercurrent system is a common biological pattern, classified into countercurrent multipliers and
exchangers. In vertebrates, these systems often involve a specialized network of arteries and veins lying
close together, known as the rete mirabile. In humans, an example of this system is found in the kidneys,
where the nephron and vasa recta together form a countercurrent multiplier. This arrangement allows
for efficient exchange and concentration of solutes and water, which are crucial in urine concentration
and maintaining the body's fluid balance.

A                          B Glomerulus                                   Vasa recta

              P                                                      290     250  Q 290
                                                                          100

                           1100                                           700      560

                           12                                                     3

                           2000                                           1800    1600

Figure 1. A Countercurrent osmotic multiplier: solute passes through a reservoir separated
by a semipermeable membrane; black arrows show water movement driven by pressure P.
B Nephron diagram: 1 - descending limb, 2 - ascending limb, 3 - collecting duct. Numbers
indicate osmolarity (mOsmol/kg).

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. Water movement across the membrane in the countercurrent multiplier (Fig-
          ure 1A) and loop of Henle is primarily driven by the similar forces.

          B. Sodium reabsorption explains the difference in osmolarity between the de-
          scending limb and the collecting duct.

          C. The osmolarity in region Q in the tissues surrounding the tubules is between
          100 and 290 mOsmol/kg.

          D. Blood entering the vasa recta in region Q has higher osmolarity than blood
          leaving the vasa recta in region Q.
@@PAGE 76@@
        Solutions and Sources for the IBO 2024
                      Theoretical Exams

                        Exam A

      Biosystematics
      Task #1.
    . FALSE. Explained by a figure.
    . FALSE. Explained by a figure.
    . TRUE. They are monocotyledons.
    . TRUE. Explained by a figure.

References:
https://www.plantarium.ru/lang/en/page/image/id/799657.html
https://www.plantarium.ru/lang/en/page/image/id/767164.html
https://www.plantarium.ru/lang/en/page/image/id/52277.html
https://www.plantarium.ru/lang/en/page/image/id/565448.html
https://www.plantarium.ru/lang/en/page/image/id/199306.html
@@PAGE 77@@
      Task #2.
    . TRUE. By employing deductive reasoning and systematically listing

       options, one can logically identify each of the five owl species displayed
       on the table. If the process is executed accurately, it becomes evident
       that the fifth species belongs to the Surnia genus (Surnia ulula), which is
       the sole representative of its kind.
    . FALSE. The second most related pair is 3/5 with 2. (1 - Asio, 2 - Athene,
       3 - Glaucidium, 4 - Otus, 5 - Surnia Ulula).
    . FALSE. All species belong to different genera.
    . TRUE. If the most recent common ancestor of the Pulsatrix-Meagscop
       clade lived in Africa / Eurasia, that would require 2 events of migration to
       America as well as two events of extinction in Africa and Eurasia. In the
       opposite case (common ancestor lived in America), we need to assume
       only a single migration from America to Africa / Eurasia.

References:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long-eared_owl
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pallid_scops_owl
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eurasian_pygmy_owl
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northern_hawk-owl
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Little_owl
https://www.bird-phylogeny.de/superorders/strigiformes/

      Task #3.
    . TRUE. . The most parsimonious solution for alignment I is the topology

       depicted on phylogenetic tree 1 (5 changes across the tree in total). Note,
       it is given that D is an outgroup.
    . FALSE. . Sites 3 and 5 are not useful. Site #3 is identical for all taxa. While
       site #5 has one variation - taxon C has A (not T), it is not helpful for the
       phylogenetic reconstruction via parsimony - you just need to make one
       change that leads to the taxon C (T  A) and it'll be the most parsimonious
       solution for for any tree topology.
    . FALSE. . Phylogenetic tree 1 is incongruent with the reference tree, while
       RNA polymerase  is a known conserved gene in Bacteria compared to
       transposase gene that is part of the transposons.
@@PAGE 78@@
    . FALSE. . As species D is an outgroup, the remaining three taxa can be
       phylogenetic related in three possible ways - D,A,(B,C); D,B,(A,C);
       D,C,(A,B)

      Cell and Molecular Biology

      Task #4.
    . FALSE. Since oxygen consumption is higher in tumor cells, we can

       conclude that they have elevated metabolism. They need to consume
       more oxygen because of a relatively high proliferation rate.
    . TRUE. The differences in extracellular pH values can be explained by
       abnormally elevated rates of anaerobic glycolysis in tumor cells, which
       results in higher production and accumulation of lactic acid. This
       phenomenon is known as the Warburg effect.
    . FALSE. Figure 2 demonstrates that the oxygen consumption rate is
       elevated in tumor cells. Such a high demand can't be satisfied, which
       leads to the development of hypoxia in the tumor microenvironment.
    . FALSE. Error bars of the data in Figure 2 demonstrate that the cancer
       cells of patient 2 display the most variation in the single-cell OCR.
       Hence, they are more heterogeneous compared to the cells of other
       patients.

Reference:
[1]https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlehtml/2018/ra/c8ra02095g#cit10
(Figure1)
[2]https://www.nature.com/articles/s41551-019-0376-5 (Figure 2)
[3]https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/agricultural-and-biological-
sciences/acid-base-
homeostasis#:~:text=It%20is%20well%20documented%20that,between%20
0.035%20and%200.045%20mEq
[4]https://aacrjournals.org/cancerres/article/73/5/1524/586608/Acidity-
Generated-by-the-Tumor-Microenvironment
@@PAGE 79@@
      Task #5.

    . TRUE. Tyr-33 substituted for aromatic amino acids such as tryptophan
       and phenylalanine shows higher affinity values than for other mutants.

    . FALSE. In Figure 1A.1, it can be seen that the original amino acid Asn has
       a higher affinity to all cardiac glycoside molecules than all mutants.

    . TRUE. The substitutions Tyr-33-Trp and Trp-100-Arg show the highest
       absorbance ratios in their mutations. Therefore, they can be used for
       cardiac glycoside detection systems.

    . TRUE. Digoxigenin lacking sugar in R1 behaves differently from other
       glycosides.

      Reference:
      Burks, E. A., Chen, G., Georgiou, G., & Iverson, B. L. (1997). In vitro
scanning saturation mutagenesis of an antibody binding pocket. Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 94(2),
412­417. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.94.2.412

      Task #6.

    . FALSE. The structure (a) in Figure 1D has  and  angles of about -100
       and 120 degrees, respectively. It is mostly located in Region 1 in Figure 2.

    . FALSE. The structure (b) in Figure 1D has  and  angles of about -60
       and -60 degrees, respectively. It is mostly located in Region 2 in Figure 2.

    . TRUE. The structure (c) in Figure 1D has  and  angles of 90 and -90
       degrees, respectively. From the Ramachandran plot, it can be seen that
       amino acids with  and  angles of 90 and -90 degrees are uncommon.

    . TRUE. From the Ramachandran plot, it can be seen that amino acids
       with  and  angles of 0 degrees are not present in the rabbit's pyruvate
       kinase. They are prohibited by steric interference between atoms in the
       polypeptide backbone and amino acid side chains.

Reference:
Nelson, D. L., & Cox, M. M. (2008). Lehninger principles of biochemistry (5th
ed.). W.H. Freeman.
@@PAGE 80@@
Task #7.

. TRUE. Actively dividing cells that need R5P for nucleotide synthesis. The
   reactions catalyzed after the first TKT-catalyzed reaction use R5P, which
   is essentially needed for cells to divide fast. Therefore, only the reactions
   before the first TKT-catalyzed reaction are more active (than the
   reactions occurring after the first TKT-catalyzed reaction) in fast-growing
   cells.

. FALSE. From the reaction pathways, it can be seen that TKT transfers
   two-carbon fragments.

. TRUE. With G6PDH deficiency less NADPH will be produced. Also, ROS
   will be reduced by existing NADPH, leading to a decreased level of
   NADPH.

. FALSE. From the reaction scheme, it is seen that for the production of
   two molecules of F6P three G6P are needed.

References:
Jin L, Zhou Y. Crucial role of the pentose phosphate pathway in malignant
tumors. Oncol Lett. 2019 May;17(5):4213-4221. doi: 10.3892/ol.2019.10112.
Epub 2019 Mar 5. PMID: 30944616; PMCID: PMC6444344.

Lee, M., Malloy, C., Corbin, I., Li, J., & Jin, E. (2019). PPP and carbon
rearrangement.  [Photograph].  Wiley              Analytical  Science.
https://analyticalsciencejournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/cms/asset/98de01

c5-8738-44e0-87f2-02ea397c2b4c/nbm4096-fig-0001-m.png

Nelson, D. L., & Cox, M. M. (2008). Lehninger principles of biochemistry (5th
ed.). W.H. Freeman.

Bozdech, Z., & Ginsburg, H. (2005). Different modes of PPP action.

[Photograph].                  Malaria                        Journal.
https://media.springernature.com/lw685/springer-

static/image/art%3A10.1186%2F1475-2875-4-
17/MediaObjects/12936_2005_Article_133_Fig2_HTML.jpg?as=webp
@@PAGE 81@@
      Task #8.

    . FALSE. Pictures A and B show that all the bases of all loops are in the
       same place - therefore each of the CTCFs participates in more than one
       loop. Picture A shows formation of 2 or 3 loops, if each CTCF-binding site
       would only participate in one loop, maximum number of loops would be
       2.

    . FALSE. DNA methylation prevents protein binding (CTCF in this case),
       thus only 2 loops are formed instead of 3. The site by which a new loop is
       formed corresponds to the 3rd CTCF site.

    . TRUE. Expression activity of IGF2 depends on the proximity of enhancer,
       figures A and B imply that this enhancer is located between H19 gene and
       CTCF binding site 4. Expression of H19 depends on the methylation state
       of ICR - it is located close to its promoter and in the methylated state
       transcription factors cannot access DNA.

    . TRUE. As was mentioned in the previous explanation, expression of H19
       depends on the methylation state of its promoter, which overlaps with
       the ICR, regardless of the enhancer.

Reference:
Nativio, R., Wendt, K. S., Ito, Y., Huddleston, J. E., Uribe-Lewis, S., Woodfine,
K., ... & Murrell, A. (2009). Cohesin is required for higher-order chromatin
conformation at the imprinted IGF2-H19 locus. *PLoS genetics*, *5*(11),
e1000739.
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pgen.1000739

      Task #9

    . TRUE. Since cryo-EM works by averaging many low-resolution images of
       molecules, a region that is different among these images will be not clear
       in the final density map and that means that this region is more flexible
       or has more stable conformations.

    . FALSE. From the molecular model, we can see that these helices are
       holding subunits of ATAD1 together. One side of the helix should have
       hydrophobic residues to interact with another subunit, another side
       should be hydrophilic to interact with water.
@@PAGE 82@@
    . FALSE. The specificity of the substrate is mainly affected if the central
       pore has mutations, we see that E193Q is clearly outside of the pore.

    . FALSE. ATAD1 indeed translocates proteins, it can be deduced from the
       motion of M6 and overall structure, however, it pulls mislocalized
       transmembrane proteins out of the membrane. This conclusion is made
       from fluorescent assay (Gos28 is in the membrane) and structure of pore
       (aromatic amino acids).

Reference:
Lan Wang, Hannah Toutkoushian, Vladislav Belyy, Claire Y Kokontis, Peter
Walter (2022) Conserved structural elements specialize ATAD1 as a
membrane protein extraction machine eLife 11:e73941
https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.73941

      Task #10

    . FALSE. The shortest possible path is movements along a vertical line,
       the real benefit of having magnetosomes is in energy efficiency - bacteria
       are not spending any energy to align themselves on path towards OATZ
       (even if this path is not the most efficient).

    . FALSE. Since the polarity of cells is opposite on both hemispheres, the
       movement of flagella will be the same for bacteria from the southern
       hemisphere.

    . TRUE. Since axial magnetotactic bacteria do not follow the direction of
       the field they have two options for movement - to the left and the right.

    . FALSE. The situation describing the beginning of the experiment is
       bacteria below a certain depth level in figure B. As we can see bacteria
       move and rotate their flagella clockwise. In the setup C there is no oxygen
       in the middle and concentration increases towards the ends.

References:
Bazylinski, D., Frankel, R. Magnetosome formation in prokaryotes. Nat Rev
Microbiol 2, 217­230 (2004). https://doi.org/10.1038/nrmicro842
Arash Komeili et al. ,Magnetosomes Are Cell Membrane Invaginations
Organized by the Actin-Like Protein MamK. Science 311, 242-245 (2006).
https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1123231
@@PAGE 83@@
      Task #11

    . FALSE. Library construction is necessary to make variance, which is one
       of the important criteria for natural/artificial selection.

    . FALSE. Anaerobic conditions for cultivation are necessary to avoid
       usage of electron transport chains for the NAD+ regeneration.

    . TRUE. The only connection of this heterologous reaction catalyzed by
       Enzyme D to native metabolic network is NAD+/NADH usage. Otherwise,
       the selection pressure cannot affect the enzyme D.

    . TRUE. As the oxygen concentration in the large intestine is very low, the
       strains having higher Enzyme D activity have higher NAD+ regeneration
       rate at the anaerobic conditions, which is the case in the large intestine.

Reference:
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-27266-9

      Task #12

    . TRUE. DMSO2 is a less hydrophilic molecule than DMSO, and it is stable
       compared to DMSO4 (which rapidly hydrolyses in water).

    . TRUE. DMSO is a strongly hydrophobic compound used as a solvent for
       organic molecules and an agent facilitating penetration of organic
       membranes, including skin.

    . FALSE. Gibbs free energy (which includes enthalpy) influences the
       feasibility of the reaction, but the reaction rate is the function of the
       activation energy.

    . FALSE. Methastases block most of the elimination of the DMSO and its
       derivatives, however, as was mentioned in the text odor was observed
       indicating elimination through the lungs.

      References:
      Grant, P. M., Haas, J. S., Whipple, R. E., & Andresen, B. D. (1997). A
possible chemical explanation for the events associated with the death of
Gloria Ramirez at Riverside General Hospital. Forensic science international,
87(3), 219-237.
@@PAGE 84@@
      Ecology

      Task #13

    . FALSE. Both NK+ graphs for legume cover are marked with a dot, which
       means they are both statistically significant.

    . FALSE. Biomass graphs only differ in magnitude between 3 years and 6
       years.

    . TRUE. Every time there is added nitrogen, the legumes cover, species
       richness, or biomass on average decline. That is not true for other
       nutrients, in which legumes do not have a competitive advantage of
       fixation. Therefore, steppes must indeed be nitrogen-limited, as taking
       away nitrogen advantage lead to negative effects for the species with that
       advantage.

    . TRUE. Non-nitrogen fixers do not benefit from low soil nitrogen, so any
       additional nutrients will drive their growth.

Reference:
Pedro M. Tognetti, et al. "Negative effects of nitrogen override positive effects
of phosphorus on grassland legumes worldwide". Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences 118. 28(2021): e2023718118.

      Task #14

    . TRUE. According to the hypothesis C, the tropics have a higher range of
       ages which would increase the variance in the species age. The
       temperate zone has less variance due to their later starting point of
       diversification.

    . TRUE. This means that a pattern has been established regardless of the
       starting point of diversification caused by the global catastrophe.

    . FALSE. Greater seasonal variation is in the temperate zone. And if it
       increases the diversification rate in the temperate zone this would go
       against Hypothesis B.

    . TRUE. This implies that all taxa emerged initially in the tropical regions
       and specific diversification of temperate species started after the start
       of the tropical diversification.
@@PAGE 85@@
References:
Mittelbach, G. G., Schemske, D. W., Cornell, H. V., Allen, A. P., Brown, J. M.,
Bush, M. B., ... & Turelli, M. (2007). Evolution and the latitudinal diversity
gradient: speciation, extinction and biogeography. Ecology letters, 10(4), 315-
331. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2007.01020.x

      Task #15

    . TRUE. When warm and moist air becomes cold, excess moisture is
       released as precipitation, and increased precipitation leads to larger
       gross primary production.

    . FALSE. It is La Niña because it will cause an increase in precipitation
       over Australia (western Pacific region).

    . FALSE. During El Niño, wind over the Pacific decreases, and the depth
       of transition between warm and cold water increases, due to this
       upwelling decrease.

    . FALSE. Changes in year Y are caused by a decrease in salinity of a lake
       which is caused by increased precipitation. Increased precipitation over
       North America is possible when El Niño happens.

Reference:
Ryan, J. P., Ueki, I., Chao, Y., Zhang, H., Polito, P. S., and Chavez, F. P. (2006),
Western Pacific modulation of large phytoplankton blooms in the central and
eastern equatorial Pacific, *J. Geophys. Res.*, 111, G02013,
https://doi.org/10.1029/2005JG000084
Wurtsbaugh, W. . (1992). Food-web modification by an invertebrate predator in
the Great Salt Lake (USA). *Oecologia*, *89*(2), 168­175.
https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00317215
Cairns, S. C., & Grigg, G. C. (1993). Population Dynamics of Red Kangaroos
(Macropus rufus) in Relation to Rainfall in the South Australian Pastoral Zone.
*Journal of Applied Ecology*, *30*(3), 444­458.
https://doi.org/10.2307/2404185
@@PAGE 86@@
      Task #16

    . FALSE. Here slope depends on d in the equation, since d is the
       complexity of the pattern it will have a larger value for rough coastlines

    . FALSE. Since the graph is on a logarithmic scale, there will be more
       individuals with smaller scales than individuals of average species, even
       if there are only half of them.

    . FALSE. This scale depends on the resources or territory required for
       each individual, not the size of the individual.

    . TRUE. In herds, the perspective scale of each individual would depend
       on the overall perspective scale of the entire herd.

Reference:
Milne, B. T. 1993. Pattern analysis for landscape evaluation and
characterization. In M. E. Jensen and P. S. Bourgeron, eds. Ecosystem
Management: Principles and Applications.

      Task #17

    . TRUE. Water withdrawal increases the speed of water circulation and
       water molecules travel faster among water reservoirs

    . FALSE. While high Rws always represent a water crisis, low Rws can be
       explained by a water crisis caused by an inability to utilize available
       RFWR (large Q and small W).

    . TRUE. Map with 1/Aw will have weighted values of population and water
       availability and thus some regions with small population density would
       have opposite values in 1/Aw and Rws

    . TRUE. Food and industrial goods production requires much more water
       than is required for consumption by humans and thus represents a major
       water

References:
      Taikan Oki, Shinjiro Kanae, Global Hydrological Cycles and World Water

Resources.Science313,1068-1072(2006).DOI:10.1126/science.1128845
@@PAGE 87@@
      Ethology

      Task #18

    . TRUE. In the case of Western Barn Owls, failing to respond to potentially
       lethal warnings is perhaps because they are used to hunting, not getting
       hunted, and alarming sounds such as approaching vehicles are new to
       them.

    . FALSE. The speeding behavior allows them to exploit traffic gaps for a
       period when traffic volume is low. The plateau represents a steady
       increase of probability of mortality associated with the speeding
       behavior.

    . TRUE. When traffic has reached sufficient volume for an animal to pause
       before attempting crossing, the probability of avoidance becomes
       greater than the probability of mortality.

    . FALSE. Even slight traffic volume can restrict movement of avoiders
       leading to the lowest mortality among others.

References:
https://www.fs.usda.gov/psw/publications/jacobson/psw_2016_jacobson00
1.pdf

      Task #19

    . TRUE. Information about effective routes is passed from generation to
       generation

    . TRUE. In each generation of the experimental group, each new pigeon
       requires time to learn the route before showing actual performance

    . TRUE. If it would not, there will be no increase in efficiency over
       generations in the experimental group, which can be explained by
       "innovations" introduced by a new pigeon in a pair

    . TRUE. Collective decision making increases with the number of animals
       in the group, but figures show clear difference between experimental and
       control pair performance, while both of them contain 2 pigeons
@@PAGE 88@@
Reference:
Sasaki, T., Biro, D. Cumulative culture can emerge from collective intelligence
in animal groups. Nat Commun 8, 15049 (2017).
https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms15049

      Genetics & Evolution
      Task #20
    . FALSE.
      p: A1
      q: A2
      r: A3
      p+q+r = 1
      p2+q2+r2+2pq+2pr+2qr = 1
      A3A3 = r2 = 0,01; r = 0,1
      A2 _ = q2+2qr = 0,08
      q2+2qr+0,08 = 0; q = 0,2

      r = 0,1; q = 0,2; p = 0,7
      So individual in n generation make up 70%
   B. TRUE. A2A2 and A2A3
   B. FALSE. Meiosis does not ensure the distribution of two sets of

       chromosomes (paternal and maternal) at 50% in the haploid daughter
       cell.
   B. FALSE. A lethal mutation most likely will not be able to pass through the
       haploid generation, since it will not be covered by a dominant allele
References:
Campbell biology, 10th edition, Jane B. Reece, Lisa A. Urry, Michael L. Cain,
Steven A. Wasserman, Peter V. Minorsky, Robert B. Jackson (2014), Pearson
@@PAGE 89@@
      Task #21

    . FALSE. . More genetically diverse populations have larger effective
       population sizes.

    . TRUE. . As the African population has higher genetic diversity, the
       deleterious (or slightly deleterious) mutations are less likely to get fixed
       (frequency = 1) as the selection plays greater role comparatively to the
       genetic drift.

    . TRUE. . Since humans started expansion out of Africa, different
       geographic regions were colonized by different population groups. As a
       result, all new populations were established by a small number of people
       from a larger (African) population.

    . FALSE. . As human genomes are almost identical to each other,
       including conserved DNA polymerases, the opposite is true and the
       heterozygosity is best studied in highly variable regions, such as
       microsatellites.

References:

Li, J. Z., Absher, D. M., Tang, H., Southwick, A. M., Casto, A. M., Ramachandran,
S., ... & Myers, R. M. (2008). Worldwide human relationships inferred from
genome-wide patterns of variation. science, 319(5866), 1100-1104.

McClellan, J. M., Lehner, T., & King, M. C. (2017). Gene discovery for complex
traits: lessons from Africa. Cell, 171(2), 261-264.

      Task #22

    . FALSE. The high consumed amount of exogenous ethanol is a
       consequence of agricultural output i.e. cultivation of certain crops and
       their intended fermentation, therefore, prior to the extensive
       development of agriculture, ADH was adjusted to degrade only tiny
       amounts of endogenous or exogenous alcohol.

    . TRUE. The adverse effect of acetaldehyde accumulation in the body is
       going to discourage individuals from ethanol consumption.
@@PAGE 90@@
    . FALSE. There is a lack of information to claim that, but the evident low
       frequency of ADH1B*2 gives a clue for absent ethanol consumption-
       driven positive selection.

    . TRUE. With the given information, the assumption of positive selection
       geographically correlates with the presence of supposed selective
       force.

References:
    https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/etnogeneticheskie-osobennosti-
       ustoychivosti-organizma-k-alkogolyu-v-populyatsiyah-narodov-
       severa/viewer
    https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Distribution-of-the-alcohol-
       dehydrogenase-allele-in-Borinskaya-
       Kal'ina/c96185fa0f8e1ac6c89a50b3a1df0eb68b2a9446
    https://droso4schools.wordpress.com/alcohol/
    https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2823730/

      Task #23

    . FALSE. . The frequency of A1 converges to the ~0.3-0.35 and remains
       relatively stable, suggesting that selection favors the intermediate
       genotype (stabilizing selection). The tricky part of the question is that
       while frequency of A2A2 > A1A2, the relative fitness of A2A2 < A1A2 that
       is why the populations converge to stable equilibrium. If relative fitness
       of A2A2 > A1A2, then allele A1 would go extinct over time.

    . FALSE. . As the random fluctuations from generation to generation are
       more pronounced, it suggests that Aizhan decreased the population size
       in experiment #2 (genetic drift starts playing a more important role,
       increasing overall stochasticity due to the random chance).

    . TRUE. . Almost all populations (including the theoretical fit) reach some
       degree of the stable equilibrium, suggesting the heterozygote advantage
       (it can be actually easily derived from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium).

    . FALSE. . The frequency of A1 decreases below 0.5 before reaching some
       degree of stability, indicating that relative fitness of genotypes is the
       following one: A1A2>A2A2>A1A1
@@PAGE 91@@
      Task #24

    . TRUE. . Ribosomal proteins are essential and universally highly
       expressed, as translation is the fundamental cellular process. Hence,
       ribosomal genes tend to have very high codon usage bias to synthesize
       ribosomal proteins rapidly and efficiently by utilizing the most abundant
       tRNA pool.

    . TRUE. . As codon usage bias tends to improve the translational
       efficiency, correction of the transgenic DNA to account for that
       phenomenon generally leads to more efficient expression of it by the
       recipient's organism.

    . FALSE. . Viruses tend to have a pronounced codon usage bias.
       Furthermore, even when viruses don't carry their tRNA molecules, they
       still rely on their host translational machinery and tRNA. Hence, genetic
       material of viruses will be selected to fit their host tRNA pool. In addition,
       multiple phages (bacterial viruses) can also carry their own tRNA
       molecules to account for their codons content. (multiple explanations
       possible, not only tRNAs)

    . FALSE. . Methionine cannot have codon usage bias as it is made only
       from one codon.

Reference:
Plotkin, J. B., & Kudla, G. (2011). Synonymous but not the same: the causes and
consequences of codon bias. Nature Reviews Genetics, 12(1), 32-42.

      Task #25

    . FALSE. As it can be seen from the figure 2b, the mutation X is located
       near to the amino acids that are less conserved rather than the mutation
       Z, which is located in a highly conservative region. As the active site of an
       enzyme is crucial for its function, the active sites are likely to be more
       conserved.

    . FALSE. The genetic code for Threonine (Thr) is AC_, and for Alanine (Ala),
       it is GC_. Assuming single-nucleotide changes in the mutations, the
       deduced mutation of A  G leads to the genetic code GC_ for Thr. Given
       that both A and G are purines, this mutation is identified as a transition
@@PAGE 92@@
       (purine  purine or pyrimidine  pyrimidine), not a transversion (A/G 
       T/C).
    . FALSE. It can be observed that the two subunits possess MTS, indicating
       that they are transported into the mitochondrion separately. This
       suggests that the assembly of RNase takes place within the
       mitochondrion rather than externally before transport.
    . TRUE. We know that individual II-3 (A1) is the carrier of mutation X. We
       need to find the probability that individual II-2 (A2) is a carrier of mutation
       Y, which is 2/3. The probability of them having a child with the syndrome
       is 1/4. Therefore, the overall probability of them having a child with the
       syndrome is 2/3 * 1/4 = 1/6.

References:
Smith, T.B., Rea, A., Thomas, H.B. et al. Novel homozygous variants in PRORP
expand the genotypic spectrum of combined oxidative phosphorylation
deficiency 54. Eur J Hum Genet 31, 1190­1194 (2023).
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41431-023-01437-2
Bhatta, A., Dienemann, C., Cramer, P. et al. Structural basis of RNA processing
by human mitochondrial RNase P. Nat Struct Mol Biol 28, 713­723 (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41594-021-00637-y

      Task #26

    . TRUE. Since it is not crossing the threshold line and we see a much
       longer duration, we can conclude that the nature of the event at the
       Frasnian-Famennian boundary (FF on the graph) is not the same as all
       other mass extinctions.

    . FALSE. Based on smaller events graph can be biased, however absence
       of large recent events supports the general trend.

    . TRUE. Events above that line mean large mass of carbon added in a short
       period of time, almost all events over that line are mass extinctions

    . TRUE. Since there are more species and they are more efficient, carbon
       travels faster between reservoirs, and carbon perturbation events
       happen in a shorter time scale.
@@PAGE 93@@
Reference:
Daniel H. Rothman ,Thresholds of catastrophe in the Earth system.Sci.
Adv.3,e1700906(2017).DOI:10.1126/sciadv.1700906

Task #27

. TRUE. The efficiency of E104K and G238S increases significantly when
   they are combined.

. FALSE. Cumulative probability plot is skewed to the right, meaning that
   trajectories have decreasing probabilities with trajectory 1 being the
   most probable.

. FALSE. Phenotypic fitness does not influence mutation rate but
   increases the probability of mutation fixation.

. FALSE. If there will be intermediate form with high fitness and next forms
   have decreasing fitness, then this route is not always the most probable,
   regardless of the final fitness. If there will be local fitness maxima
   evolution would not favor further mutations decreasing fitness (evolution
   cannot plan).

References:

Daniel M. Weinreich et al. ,Darwinian Evolution Can Follow Only Very Few
Mutational   Paths  to  Fitter         Proteins.Science312,111-
114(2006).DOI:10.1126/science.1123539

 Task #28

. TRUE. Effectively neutral mutations, while may not be truly neutral, have
   negligible effect on the scales of real populations (usually > Ne) => their
   fixation can be explained only by random genetic drift. For example,
   suppose, s < 1/Ne, e.g. humans (Ne = 10000) => s < 1*10^-4 (meaning
   that mutation has a very weak effect so that it is effectively neutral
   (cannot be efficiently selected within the actual population - its fate
   completely depends on drift)

. TRUE. Species with larger Ne have less effectively neutral mutations and
   consequently larger amounts of weakly adaptive mutations.
@@PAGE 94@@
    . TRUE. We are not able to track one large group of deleterious mutations
       - lethal mutations since only survivors are passing their mutations.

    . FALSE. It represents the proportion of effectively neutral mutations,
       when we compare genomes deleterious mutations should be under
       negative selection and not present in large amounts - we mostly see
       effectively neutral mutations at non-silent sites.

      References:
      Eyre-Walker, A., Keightley, P. The distribution of fitness effects of new
mutations. Nat Rev Genet 8, 610­618 (2007). https://doi.org/10.1038/nrg2146

      Task #29

    . TRUE. Only infection of germline cells will generate heritable genetic
       element

    . FALSE. Loss of one gene, for example - env, is enough to lose the
       property of virion formation and to become a retrotransposon

    . FALSE. Since LTR regions are similar, they are prone to homologous
       recombination events, where everything between them is lost

    . TRUE. This factor would prevent certain retrovirus from infecting the
       host and when the exogenous retroviral population becomes too small
       or extinct, then the population no longer needs this ERV in their genome

References:
Johnson, W.E. Origins and evolutionary consequences of ancient endogenous
retroviruses. Nat Rev Microbiol 17, 355­370 (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41579-019-0189-2
@@PAGE 95@@
      Plant Anatomy and Physiology

      Task #30

    . FALSE.From Figure 1, it's evident that when a shoot from a wild-type
       plant is grafted onto the root of a gibberellin-deficient plant, there are no
       observable changes. However, when a ga1-3 shoot is grafted onto a ga1-
       3 root, there's a decrease in intensity, indicating that gibberellin
       synthesis occurs in the shoots and is transported to the roots.

    . TRUE. Examining Figure 2 reveals that the wild type exhibits a high
       concentration of gibberellin in the vacuoles of the pericycle and a
       relatively low concentration in the endoderm. This pattern is consistent
       across all mutants except the last one, where the ability to store
       gibberellin in the vacuole is compromised. Notably, in this mutant, the
       cytoplasmic concentration of gibberellin in the endoderm and cortex is
       significantly higher than that of the wild type. This indicates that
       gibberellin, instead of being stored in the vacuole, is being transported
       into the endodermal cells, resulting in an elevated concentration. This
       observation underscores the regulatory role of vacuoles in gibberellin
       secretion into the endoderm and cortex.

    . TRUE. This mutant exhibits impaired gibberellin transport into the
       endodermis, resulting in a low level of suberization in these cells. Since
       endodermal suberization is crucial for the formation of Casparian strips,
       this mutant will have poorly defined Casparian strips. This will lead to an
       increase in apoplastic transport into the stele, which increases the
       chances of obtaining water imbalance or toxin contamination.

    . FALSE. The transporter npf 2.14 is located on the vacuolar membrane.
       This can be observed in Figure 2, where its absence resulted in a
       reduction of vacuolar gibberellin concentration to zero.

References:
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41477-023-01391-3
@@PAGE 96@@
      Task #31

    . TRUE. Because GDC, a decarboxylase, removes a CO2, but does not
       prevent serine production. Serine can go into gluconeogenesis.

    . FALSE. Increased CO2 levels will lead to Rubisco favoring
       photosynthesis over photorespiration, so LESS need for the latter.

    . FALSE. All enzymes there are either pink or yellow, so overexpressing
       them would have a negative net effect.

    . TRUE. Because their Calvin cycle happens in cells with high
       concentration of CO2.

Reference:
Stefan Timm, Martin Hagemann, Photorespiration--how is it regulated and
how does it regulate overall plant metabolism?, Journal of Experimental
Botany, Volume 71, Issue 14, 6 July 2020, Pages 3955­3965,
https://doi.org/10.1093/jxb/eraa183
https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Photorespiration_allgemein.svg

      Task #32

    . TRUE. Because electrodes could trigger hyperpolarization or
       depolarization, bypassing light stimuli and causing stomatal
       opening/closing.

    . FALSE. Lignin makes cells more rigid, preventing subsidiary cells from
       properly "bending" to allow a wide opening, thus making stomata
       narrower and less effective.

    . FALSE. Potassium deficiency would lead to lower volume of water flow,
       as potassium gradients would have lower magnitude, so the cell shape
       would change less and pore area would be lower

    . TRUE. Since aquaporins are passive channels, they cannot start or end
       a flow on their own, so adding more of them could only increase the rate
       of osmosis.

Reference:
T.D.G. Nunes, D. Zhang, M.T. Raissig Form, development and function of grass
stomata Plant J., 101 (4) (2020), pp. 780-799
@@PAGE 97@@
      Task #33

    . TRUE. Without the xanthophyll cycle, the plants cannot dissipate excess
       light's energy. Therefore, they will suffer strong oxidative stress under the
       sun, and would prefer shade.

    . TRUE. The Steppe population is constantly exposed to direct sunlight,
       while the understory population is hidden by the forest canopy.
       Therefore, the former would be more adapted to constant daylight,
       partially through higher xanthophyll concentration. As it is a temperate
       climate, extra heat does not make this a maladaptive trait.

    . FALSE. High leaf temperature means that using heat as an energy
       dispersion mechanism is more dangerous, and just reducing de-
       epoxidase activity would not help as under sunlight the proton
       concentration would increase regardless, activating more zeaxanthin.
       Thus, total Pre-Z + Z concentration should be decreased for the plant to
       survive. Since the climate is always sunny and hot, it is a viable
       adaptation.

    . TRUE. This is a hypothetical scenario, but if no other option was
       available, the leaves from the top of the canopy would have to produce
       more ascorbate (salt of ascorbic acid, also known as vitamin C) to adapt
       to higher light levels. Thus, eating them gives more vitamin C. From the
       book: "The pool of reduced ascorbate, which plays a role in the
       xanthophyll cycle (Fig. 2.17), is also several-fold greater in plants
       acclimated to high light (Logan et al. 1996)." page 45

References:
Lambers, H., & Oliveira, R. S. (2019). Photosynthesis, Respiration, and Long-
Distance Transport. In Plant Physiological Ecology. Springer Nature.

      Task #34

    . FALSE. By 9am, both starch and soluble sugar graphs had positive
       change for all three stages. Therefore, photosynthesis must have begun
       before that, as it is the sole source of production of new starch and
       soluble sugars for photosynthetic cells.
@@PAGE 98@@
    . TRUE. Peak value of 120 instead of 72-90 is unlikely to come due to
       grains growing the seed. TSC is easier to transport through phloem
       towards the seeds compared to starch, so there is an increased demand
       for TSC in seed kernels.

    . TRUE. Since the TSC pool includes free cytosolic glucose, which is the
       fuel for cell respiration, this should be true. Between 24 and 6 hours, that
       glucose is going to be respired further, reconnecting the graphs.

    . FALSE. Lower leaf starch means more carbohydrates are leaving leaves
       to go to the seed's endosperm. Since it is a crop, humans will eventually
       consume endosperm and thus, more starch going to the endosperm is a
       beneficial trait.

References:
Liang, X., Gao, Z., Zhang, L., Shen, S., Zhao, X., Liu, Y., Zhou, L., Paul, M. J., &
Zhou, S. (2019). Seasonal and diurnal patterns of non-structural carbohydrates
in source and sink tissues in field maize. BMC Plant Biology, 19(1).
https://doi.org/10.1186/s12870-019-2068-4

      Task #35

    . TRUE. Density is inversely proportional to PC3, and S. giganteum has
       lower PC3 values than the other species.

    . FALSE. Resistance to xylem blockage is tracked by PC2, and height is
       tracked by dot size. For S. sempervirens, dot size and PC2 are positively
       correlated, so it is the taller trees that would have higher resistance to
       xylem blockage

    . TRUE. In an arid environmentadapted plants, controlling transpiration
       through changes in leaf shape and structure is a more advantageous
       tactic to costly branch-level changes to xylem structure. Therefore, the
       change of the environment to a wetter one will allow the plants to pursue
       the costlier strategy.

    . FALSE. To compare density and height, we compare the dot size and
       PC3. Bigger dots tend to be close to 0.5 mark for PC3, and smaller dots
       cluster at higher PC3. However, they also intermix with big dots near 0.5,
       so PC3 (density) and dot size (height) don't appear particularly covarying
       at all. Furthermore, density inversely covarying with height does not
@@PAGE 99@@
       make biological sense, as taller trees would want denser, more flexible
       and taut stems.

References:
Ambrose, A. R., Sillett, S. C., & Dawson, T. E. (2009). Effects of tree height on
branch hydraulics, leaf structure and gas exchange in California redwoods.
Plant Cell and Environment, 32(7), 743­757. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-
3040.2009.01950.x

      Task #36

    . FALSE. Since diffusion coefficient in water is smaller than air, the
       aquatic plants prefer thinner cuticles to allow more area to
       uptake/release the dissolved gasses, as opposed to only stomata of land
       plants.

    . TRUE. The graph between 7 and 8 shows that HCO3- is at least 90% of
       total carbon in that range of pH, so it would be advantageous to use it as
       a carbon source in oceanic ecosystems.

    . TRUE. True, because it would locally lower the pH to levels where CO2
       dominates and can be more readily uptaken as opposed to its ionic
       forms.

    . TRUE. Higher efficiency Rubisco would lead to higher forward reaction
       rate, which would create the asymmetry to give direction to carbonic
       anhydrase reaction. This assumes the pH stays close enough to its
       original value, which is possible because cytoplasm is buffered and
       anhydrase does not consume enough protons to shift the pH too far.

References:
Lambers, H., & Oliveira, R. S. (2019). Photosynthesis, Respiration, and Long-
Distance Transport. In Plant Physiological Ecology. Springer Nature.
@@PAGE 100@@
      Task #37

    . FALSE. This refers to the Casparian belts, which do not allow water and
       solutes to pass through the cell walls (apoplastic pathway), only through
       cell membranes. Casparian belts are located in the endoderm, that is,
       on the border of zones B and C.

    . FALSE. In order for water to flow from the soil (zone A) to the primary root
       cortex (zone B), a solution with a higher concentration of dissolved
       substances must be formed in zone B (that is, in zone B the water
       potential must be lower). Solutes combine with water molecules due to
       their charge, reducing the concentration of free water molecules. Thus,
       for the shown water flow, it is necessary that the concentration of free
       water molecules in zone B be less than in zone A.

    . TRUE. Oxygen starvation usually occurs during floods. As a result of the
       described process, empty cavities appear in zone B (primary root cortex),
       which improves the aeration of root tissues.

    . TRUE. True, because NaCl dissociates in water into two particles. That
       is, 0.2 moles of NaCl yield 0.4 Osm/L in solution. Thus, the solution will
       have a higher concentration of dissolved particles than the cells in zone
       B (i.e., it will be more concentrated).

References:
Campbell Biology, chapter 36 "Resource acquisition and Transport in Vascular
Plants"
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osmotic_concentration

      Animal Anatomy and Physiology

      Task #38

    . FALSE. The SA node should have its own pace - C3. C1 corresponds to
       the ventricular myocyte and C2 to the atrial one.

    . FALSE. Repolarization of atria is not visible behind the QRS complex, it
       would be seen if there is no depolarization of ventricles.

    . FALSE. S wave is depolarization, but moving in the opposite to the lead
       side.
@@PAGE 101@@
    . TRUE. The current direction of the vector P corresponds to the direction
       of the lead II and is perpendicular to the lead III.

References:
      Hamid Khederlou, H. (2023). Complete heart block associated with

paraneoplastic hypercalcemia: A case report. European Heart Journal, 7(1).
https://doi.org/10.1093/ehjcr/ytac492

      Morlin, M. T., Cruz, C. J. G., Melo, P. B. S., Lopes, G. H. R., Soares, E. M. K.
V. K., Porto, L. G. G., & Molina, G. E. (2020). BRADYCARDIA IN ATHLETES: DOES
THE TYPE OF SPORT MAKE ANY DIFFERENCE? ­ A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW.
SciELO Brazil, 26(5). https://doi.org/10.1590/1517-8692202026052019_0001

      Silverthorn, D. U. (2022). Human physiology an integrated approach (11th
ed.). Pearson, Harlow.

      Teymouri, N., Mesbah, S., Navabian, S. M. H., Shekouh, D., Najafabadi, M.
M., Norouzkhani, N., Poudineh, M., Qadirifard, M. S., Mehrtabar, S., & Deravi,
N. (2022). ECG frequency changes in potassium disorders: a narrative review.
American journal of cardiovascular disease, 12(3), 112­124

      Widemaier, E. P., Vander, A. J., Raff, H., & Strang, K. T. (2019). Vander's
human physiology : The mechanisms of body function (15th ed.). McGraw-Hill
Education.

      Task #39

    . FALSE. Snow leopards' hemoglobin shows almost no sensitivity to DPG,
       as evidenced by nearly identical curves for cofactor-free hemoglobin and
       hemoglobin with added DPG, unlike the noticeable difference seen in
       humans between cofactor-free and DPG-added hemoglobin (Figure 1B).

    . TRUE. The hemoglobin of snow leopards inhabiting high-altitude areas
       has a low affinity to oxygen and causes hypoxia. An enhanced capacity
       to increase ventilation under severe hypoxia could help compensate for
       the low O2 affinity of snow leopards, causing respiratory alkalosis. This,
       in turn, induces increased renal excretion of bicarbonate compared to
       snow leopards living in lowland areas, returning the pH back to normal.

    . FALSE. From Figures 1A and 1B, it can be observed that the oxygen
       affinity of hemoglobin in snow leopards is mostly the same as in lions for
       low oxygen concentrations, which inhabit lowland areas. Therefore, the
@@PAGE 102@@
       hemoglobin of snow leopards is not adapted to high altitudes
       biochemically, and snow leopards rely on other adaptations like
       hyperventilation.
    . FALSE. Increased P50 means that the hemoglobin has less affinity to
       oxygen. The graph shows a positive change in P50, which implies that KCl
       always lowers affinity. Therefore, KCl causes a stronger decrease in
       affinity to oxygen for the lion's HbA as opposed to the snow leopard's
       HbB (Figure 1C).

References:
      Janecka JE, Nielsen SS, Andersen SD, Hoffmann FG, Weber RE, Anderson

T, Storz JF, Fago A. Genetically based low oxygen affinities of felid hemoglobins:
lack of biochemical adaptation to high-altitude hypoxia in the snow leopard. J
Exp Biol. 2015 Aug;218(Pt 15):2402-9. doi: 10.1242/jeb.125369. PMID:
26246610; PMCID: PMC4528707.

      Zubieta-Calleja G, Zubieta-Castillo G, Zubieta-Calleja L, Ardaya-Zubieta
G, Paulev PE. Do over 200 million healthy altitude residents really suffer from
chronic Acid-base disorders? Indian J Clin Biochem. 2011 Jan;26(1):62-5. doi:
10.1007/s12291-010-0088-9. Epub 2010 Nov 16. PMID: 22211016; PMCID:
PMC3068777.

      Task #40

    . TRUE. From Figure 1, it can be observed that the light-fed mice were
       consistently less active than the dark-fed group over time. Light-fed mice
       also consumed slightly more calories than the dark-fed mice. The
       combined effect of a small increase in caloric intake and a small
       decrease in activity contributes to specific differences in body weight.

    . FALSE. Mice are nocturnal animals with higher activity during the dark
       period (Figure 1) and less temperature fluctuation (Figure 2B). However,
       light-time feeding resulted in an increase in body weight and fluctuations
       in body temperature. Therefore, light-time feeding is an example of
       circadian-behavior misalignment.

    . FALSE. The light-fed mice's body temperature range before the
       experiment was 36-38 and during the light-time feeding, it became 34-38
@@PAGE 103@@
   degrees Celsius (Figure 2A), while the dark-fed mice's body temperature
   range did not change (Figure 2B).
. FALSE. From Figure 1, it can be seen that with decreasing locomotor
   activity in light-fed mice, their caloric intake from the middle of week 2 to
   the middle of week 6 stays relatively the same.

Reference:

1. Damiola, F., Le Minh, N., Preitner, N., Kornmann, B., Fleury-Olela, F., &
Schibler, U. (2000). Restricted feeding uncouples circadian oscillators in
peripheral tissues from the central pacemaker in the suprachiasmatic

nucleus.    Genes         &  development,  14(23),  2950­2961.
https://doi.org/10.1101/gad.183500
2. Arble, Deanna M et al. "Circadian timing of food intake contributes to

weight gain." Obesity (Silver Spring, Md.) vol. 17,11 (2009): 2100-2.
doi:10.1038/oby.2009.264

      Task #41

    . TRUE. The rate of active bouts persisted through prolonged periods of
       constant light or darkness (Figure 1C), suggesting internal control or
       circadian rhythm.

    . FALSE. From the figures it is seen that they are nocturnal animals
       because active and quiet sleep phases occur during the daytime.

    . FALSE. There is no data provided that shows the changes in the average
       duration of active bouts after sleep deprivation.

    . TRUE. There is an increased amount of bouts after sleep deprivation and
       there is a higher probability of bout being sooner if the bout is
       interrupted.

Reference:
Wake-like skin patterning and neural activity during octopus sleep. Aditi
Pophale, Kazumichi Shimizu, Tomoyuki Mano, Teresa L. Iglesias, Kerry Martin,
Makoto Hiroi, Keishu Asada, Paulette García Andaluz, Thi Thu Van Dinh, Leenoy
Meshulam & Sam Reiter.
@@PAGE 104@@
      Task #42

    . FALSE. The electric eel employs low-voltage impulses to detect the
       presence of prey nearby. However, for direct localization of prey, it
       utilizes high-voltage impulses. This is evident from the eel's behavior of
       attacking the conducting rod, mistaking it for prey, as the rod affected the
       electric field generated by the high-voltage impulses.

    . FALSE. The eel initiated the attack on the rod because it detected the
       presence of prey nearby. It recognized this when the prey, in response to
       the low-voltage impulse, twitched, thereby creating a mechanical
       movement in the water, which the eel sensed.

    . FALSE. The frame indicates the time point when the high-voltage
       impulses commence (following the low-voltage one). From this, it can be
       inferred that the corpse has already twitched, and the eel has realized
       the presence of prey nearby.

    . FALSE. As stated in the explanation of the first point, for direct prey
       localization prior to attack, the electric eel employs high-voltage
       impulses. Mechanoreceptors only sense water vibrations after the prey
       twitches due to the low-voltage impulse.

Reference:
https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms9638#citeas

      Task #43

    . FALSE. Not all bones are represented by dark areas. For example, the
       eye sockets are shown in light gray.

    . FALSE. Conversely, as the passage widens, the airspeed decreases -
       Poiseuille's Law.

    . FALSE. Structure "l" is tongue (lingua), which has other primary
       functions

    . FALSE. Due to the large weight load per unit area of support, saigas more
       often fall into the snow, which makes them easier prey for wolves in
       winter
@@PAGE 105@@
Reference:
1. Case studies in novel narial anatomy: 3. Structure and function of the nasal
cavity of saiga (Artiodactyla: Bovidae: Saiga tatarica). Andrew B. Clifford and
Lawrence M. Witmer.
https://people.ohio.edu/witmerl/Downloads/2004_Clifford&Witmer_saiga_no
se.pdf
2. "  " ("Living Treasures of Kazakhstan")
«Kazakhstan» Publishing House, Alma-Ata, 1979. Compiled by E. A. Bychkova.
Scientific editors: E. V. Gvozdev, Academician of the Academy of Sciences of
the Kazakh SSR; V. I. Kapitonov, Candidate of Biological Sciences.

      Task #44

    . FALSE. . Activation of TLR7/8 receptors on X-chromosome bearing
       sperm cells decrease their progressive motility (See Graph A of Figure 2).

    . TRUE. . See Graph C of figure 2. High-mobility sperm cells that don't have
       TLR7/TLR8 receptors (and more likely to have Y chromosome) are in the
       upper layer.

    . TRUE. . Results shown in graphs B and C of Figure 2 allow us to conclude
       that this is a viable method of sorting sperm cells by sex.

    . TRUE. . Difference between R and C groups under different glucose
       concentration from Graph A of Figure 2

      References:
      Umehara, T., Tsujita, N., Zhu, Z., Ikedo, M., & Shimada, M. (2020). A simple
sperm-sexing method that activates TLR7/8 on X sperm for the efficient
production of sexed mouse or cattle embryos. Nature protocols, 15(8), 2645­
2667. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41596-020-0348-y

Umehara, T., Tsujita, N., & Shimada, M. (2019). Activation of Toll-like receptor
7/8 encoded by the X chromosome alters sperm motility and provides a novel
simple technology for sexing sperm. PLoS biology, 17(8), e3000398.
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000398
@@PAGE 106@@
      Task #45

    . TRUE. . Cross - sections of samples with EC(+) shows luminar structures
       and better media supply, which shows that EC increases the formation
       of new vessels, while function of FGF2 is to promote communication
       with the vascular bed.

    . FALSE. . As you can see in the figures H and G with green fluorescence,
       the green dots are not actively distributed in the cell sheet area in image
       G, while at image H, EC are actively distributed around the cs.

    . TRUE. . By assuming that cells have the same proliferation rate (from the
       same culture of cells), the plateau state in the bioluminescence rate
       indicates the cell survival rate, because at the plateau point, the number
       of living cells with luciferase enzyme is the only limiting factor. It is true
       that EC(-) FGF(+) has higher cell survival than EC(+) FGF(-).

    . FALSE. . For EC(+) FGF(+) the rate can not mainly be explained by simple
       direct diffusion, because direct diffusion alone can not be that fast as
       you can see in the example of all EC(-) samples. The combined effect of
       direct diffusion and transport by newly developed vessels provides a fast
       increasing state.

References:
- In vitro fabrication of functional three-dimensional tissues with perfusable
blood vessels
https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms2406

      Task #46

    . FALSE. We can see that neurons can fire action potential with higher
       frequency (Figure 1C) meaning that this pattern is formed due to different
       reasons.

    . FALSE. Since the membrane potential rises for the fourth time, the
       neuron is not in the absolute refractory period, therefore, with an
       increase in the signal duration, more ions will enter the cell and the
       potential may reach the threshold value.
@@PAGE 107@@
    . TRUE. The potential of sodium is much further from its equilibrium
       potential than the potential of potassium, therefore, even with the free
       movement of both cations, more sodium will enter the cell.

    . TRUE. For the generation of action potential any duration of light pulse
       longer than certain threshold can work, however to get subthreshold
       depolarization duration of light pulse should be more precise.

Reference:
Boyden, E., Zhang, F., Bamberg, E. et al. Millisecond-timescale, genetically
targeted optical control of neural activity. Nat Neurosci 8, 1263­1268 (2005).
https://doi.org/10.1038/nn1525

      Task #47

    . FALSE. Flying animals require more energy for the beginning of the
       movement.

    . FALSE. It is possible to find the lowest value by solving an equation or
       taking the derivative. V = 0.79 km/h.

    . FALSE. Since each type of gait has its minimum, animals would switch
       between these COT minimums without moving on the intermediate
       speeds - multimodal distribution (with 3 peaks).

    . TRUE. Cod experiences increasing drag because of the movement in the
       water, running animals experience negligible air drag.

References:
Moyes, C. D., & Schulte, P. M. (2016). In Principles of Animal Physiology (pp.
535­538). essay, Pearson.

      Task #48

    . TRUE. The person does full expiration and the only remaining volume is
       RV, meaning that the spirometer is now Vs + ERV

    . FALSE. From the description of the process, it is possible to notice that
       we form a closed system when a person starts to breathe in a spirometer.
@@PAGE 108@@
       It means that the amount of helium at the beginning of the experiment
       should be equal to the final amount: C1Vs = C2(Vsf+RV). As a result, we
       can calculate RV=(C1Vs)/C2 - Vsf. RV1 = (10*5)/8 - 5.6 = 0.65L = 650 ml
    . TRUE. Constant inspiratory volume + increased RV = increased lung
       volume.
    . TRUE. Patient 2 has decreased RV and decreased ERV, meaning that its
       total lung volume is also smaller with less RV left inside, pneumothorax
       can explain this as the patient would only have one functioning lung.

Reference:
Moyes, C. D., & Schulte, P. M. (2016). In Principles of Animal Physiology (pp.
574­575). essay, Pearson.

      Task #49

    . TRUE. Tachycardia is increased heart rate, meaning that the time
       between each heartbeat, and consequently systole, is smaller.

    . FALSE. High arterial pressure means that there is higher pressure in the
       aorta during the systolic phase and more resistance to ventricular
       contraction. Higher resistance results in lower peak velocity.

    . TRUE. . By simply rearranging the equation, we get that v = c(delta
       f)/(2*f0*cos(theta)) = 120 cm/s

    . TRUE. The area under the curve represents the distance traveled by the
       blood during the entire systole. Blood travel distance = 0.33 * 100 / 2 =
       16.67 cm. We know the distance and we know that the aorta has a radius
       of 1.25 cm, meaning that the volume traveled through the aorta is 16.67
       *(pi * 1.25^2) = 81.8 cm^3. From the graph, it is also seen that the heart
       rate is 60 bpm, CO = 81.8 * 60 = 4908 cm^3 = 4.9 L.

References
https://www.deltexmedical.com/downloads/TechnicalReview.pdf
@@PAGE 109@@
      Task #50

    . FALSE. While hydrostatic pressure drives blood through the glomerulus,
       water moves via secondary active transport after the sodium.

    . TRUE. While at the same depth, 1 and 3 have different osmolarities, this
       is not due to the water movement, but rather because of the reabsorption
       of the sodium in the collecting duct.

    . FALSE. Osmolarity should be higher than 290 so that water would
       establish 290 in the descending limb, as well as in the collecting duct.

    . TRUE. In this case, sodium will be left in the kidney and gradually all of
       the sodium will accumulate in the medulla.

Reference:
WINTERS, R. W., & DAVIES, R. E. (1961). The role of countercurrent
mechanisms in urine concentration: a review. Annals of Internal Medicine,
54(4), 810-826
