      Plant Anatomy and Physiology

      Task #30

    . FALSE.From Figure 1, it's evident that when a shoot from a wild-type
       plant is grafted onto the root of a gibberellin-deficient plant, there are no
       observable changes. However, when a ga1-3 shoot is grafted onto a ga1-
       3 root, there's a decrease in intensity, indicating that gibberellin
       synthesis occurs in the shoots and is transported to the roots.

    . TRUE. Examining Figure 2 reveals that the wild type exhibits a high
       concentration of gibberellin in the vacuoles of the pericycle and a
       relatively low concentration in the endoderm. This pattern is consistent
       across all mutants except the last one, where the ability to store
       gibberellin in the vacuole is compromised. Notably, in this mutant, the
       cytoplasmic concentration of gibberellin in the endoderm and cortex is
       significantly higher than that of the wild type. This indicates that
       gibberellin, instead of being stored in the vacuole, is being transported
       into the endodermal cells, resulting in an elevated concentration. This
       observation underscores the regulatory role of vacuoles in gibberellin
       secretion into the endoderm and cortex.

    . TRUE. This mutant exhibits impaired gibberellin transport into the
       endodermis, resulting in a low level of suberization in these cells. Since
       endodermal suberization is crucial for the formation of Casparian strips,
       this mutant will have poorly defined Casparian strips. This will lead to an
       increase in apoplastic transport into the stele, which increases the
       chances of obtaining water imbalance or toxin contamination.

    . FALSE. The transporter npf 2.14 is located on the vacuolar membrane.
       This can be observed in Figure 2, where its absence resulted in a
       reduction of vacuolar gibberellin concentration to zero.

References:
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41477-023-01391-3
      Task #31

    . TRUE. Because GDC, a decarboxylase, removes a CO2, but does not
       prevent serine production. Serine can go into gluconeogenesis.

    . FALSE. Increased CO2 levels will lead to Rubisco favoring
       photosynthesis over photorespiration, so LESS need for the latter.

    . FALSE. All enzymes there are either pink or yellow, so overexpressing
       them would have a negative net effect.

    . TRUE. Because their Calvin cycle happens in cells with high
       concentration of CO2.

Reference:
Stefan Timm, Martin Hagemann, Photorespiration--how is it regulated and
how does it regulate overall plant metabolism?, Journal of Experimental
Botany, Volume 71, Issue 14, 6 July 2020, Pages 3955­3965,
https://doi.org/10.1093/jxb/eraa183
https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Photorespiration_allgemein.svg

      Task #32

    . TRUE. Because electrodes could trigger hyperpolarization or
       depolarization, bypassing light stimuli and causing stomatal
       opening/closing.

    . FALSE. Lignin makes cells more rigid, preventing subsidiary cells from
       properly "bending" to allow a wide opening, thus making stomata
       narrower and less effective.

    . FALSE. Potassium deficiency would lead to lower volume of water flow,
       as potassium gradients would have lower magnitude, so the cell shape
       would change less and pore area would be lower

    . TRUE. Since aquaporins are passive channels, they cannot start or end
       a flow on their own, so adding more of them could only increase the rate
       of osmosis.

Reference:
T.D.G. Nunes, D. Zhang, M.T. Raissig Form, development and function of grass
stomata Plant J., 101 (4) (2020), pp. 780-799
      Task #33

    . TRUE. Without the xanthophyll cycle, the plants cannot dissipate excess
       light's energy. Therefore, they will suffer strong oxidative stress under the
       sun, and would prefer shade.

    . TRUE. The Steppe population is constantly exposed to direct sunlight,
       while the understory population is hidden by the forest canopy.
       Therefore, the former would be more adapted to constant daylight,
       partially through higher xanthophyll concentration. As it is a temperate
       climate, extra heat does not make this a maladaptive trait.

    . FALSE. High leaf temperature means that using heat as an energy
       dispersion mechanism is more dangerous, and just reducing de-
       epoxidase activity would not help as under sunlight the proton
       concentration would increase regardless, activating more zeaxanthin.
       Thus, total Pre-Z + Z concentration should be decreased for the plant to
       survive. Since the climate is always sunny and hot, it is a viable
       adaptation.

    . TRUE. This is a hypothetical scenario, but if no other option was
       available, the leaves from the top of the canopy would have to produce
       more ascorbate (salt of ascorbic acid, also known as vitamin C) to adapt
       to higher light levels. Thus, eating them gives more vitamin C. From the
       book: "The pool of reduced ascorbate, which plays a role in the
       xanthophyll cycle (Fig. 2.17), is also several-fold greater in plants
       acclimated to high light (Logan et al. 1996)." page 45

References:
Lambers, H., & Oliveira, R. S. (2019). Photosynthesis, Respiration, and Long-
Distance Transport. In Plant Physiological Ecology. Springer Nature.

      Task #34

    . FALSE. By 9am, both starch and soluble sugar graphs had positive
       change for all three stages. Therefore, photosynthesis must have begun
       before that, as it is the sole source of production of new starch and
       soluble sugars for photosynthetic cells.
    . TRUE. Peak value of 120 instead of 72-90 is unlikely to come due to
       grains growing the seed. TSC is easier to transport through phloem
       towards the seeds compared to starch, so there is an increased demand
       for TSC in seed kernels.

    . TRUE. Since the TSC pool includes free cytosolic glucose, which is the
       fuel for cell respiration, this should be true. Between 24 and 6 hours, that
       glucose is going to be respired further, reconnecting the graphs.

    . FALSE. Lower leaf starch means more carbohydrates are leaving leaves
       to go to the seed's endosperm. Since it is a crop, humans will eventually
       consume endosperm and thus, more starch going to the endosperm is a
       beneficial trait.

References:
Liang, X., Gao, Z., Zhang, L., Shen, S., Zhao, X., Liu, Y., Zhou, L., Paul, M. J., &
Zhou, S. (2019). Seasonal and diurnal patterns of non-structural carbohydrates
in source and sink tissues in field maize. BMC Plant Biology, 19(1).
https://doi.org/10.1186/s12870-019-2068-4

      Task #35

    . TRUE. Density is inversely proportional to PC3, and S. giganteum has
       lower PC3 values than the other species.

    . FALSE. Resistance to xylem blockage is tracked by PC2, and height is
       tracked by dot size. For S. sempervirens, dot size and PC2 are positively
       correlated, so it is the taller trees that would have higher resistance to
       xylem blockage

    . TRUE. In an arid environmentadapted plants, controlling transpiration
       through changes in leaf shape and structure is a more advantageous
       tactic to costly branch-level changes to xylem structure. Therefore, the
       change of the environment to a wetter one will allow the plants to pursue
       the costlier strategy.

    . FALSE. To compare density and height, we compare the dot size and
       PC3. Bigger dots tend to be close to 0.5 mark for PC3, and smaller dots
       cluster at higher PC3. However, they also intermix with big dots near 0.5,
       so PC3 (density) and dot size (height) don't appear particularly covarying
       at all. Furthermore, density inversely covarying with height does not
       make biological sense, as taller trees would want denser, more flexible
       and taut stems.

References:
Ambrose, A. R., Sillett, S. C., & Dawson, T. E. (2009). Effects of tree height on
branch hydraulics, leaf structure and gas exchange in California redwoods.
Plant Cell and Environment, 32(7), 743­757. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-
3040.2009.01950.x

      Task #36

    . FALSE. Since diffusion coefficient in water is smaller than air, the
       aquatic plants prefer thinner cuticles to allow more area to
       uptake/release the dissolved gasses, as opposed to only stomata of land
       plants.

    . TRUE. The graph between 7 and 8 shows that HCO3- is at least 90% of
       total carbon in that range of pH, so it would be advantageous to use it as
       a carbon source in oceanic ecosystems.

    . TRUE. True, because it would locally lower the pH to levels where CO2
       dominates and can be more readily uptaken as opposed to its ionic
       forms.

    . TRUE. Higher efficiency Rubisco would lead to higher forward reaction
       rate, which would create the asymmetry to give direction to carbonic
       anhydrase reaction. This assumes the pH stays close enough to its
       original value, which is possible because cytoplasm is buffered and
       anhydrase does not consume enough protons to shift the pH too far.

References:
Lambers, H., & Oliveira, R. S. (2019). Photosynthesis, Respiration, and Long-
Distance Transport. In Plant Physiological Ecology. Springer Nature.
      Task #37

    . FALSE. This refers to the Casparian belts, which do not allow water and
       solutes to pass through the cell walls (apoplastic pathway), only through
       cell membranes. Casparian belts are located in the endoderm, that is,
       on the border of zones B and C.

    . FALSE. In order for water to flow from the soil (zone A) to the primary root
       cortex (zone B), a solution with a higher concentration of dissolved
       substances must be formed in zone B (that is, in zone B the water
       potential must be lower). Solutes combine with water molecules due to
       their charge, reducing the concentration of free water molecules. Thus,
       for the shown water flow, it is necessary that the concentration of free
       water molecules in zone B be less than in zone A.

    . TRUE. Oxygen starvation usually occurs during floods. As a result of the
       described process, empty cavities appear in zone B (primary root cortex),
       which improves the aeration of root tissues.

    . TRUE. True, because NaCl dissociates in water into two particles. That
       is, 0.2 moles of NaCl yield 0.4 Osm/L in solution. Thus, the solution will
       have a higher concentration of dissolved particles than the cells in zone
       B (i.e., it will be more concentrated).

References:
Campbell Biology, chapter 36 "Resource acquisition and Transport in Vascular
Plants"
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osmotic_concentration

      Animal Anatomy and Physiology

      Task #38

    . FALSE. The SA node should have its own pace - C3. C1 corresponds to
       the ventricular myocyte and C2 to the atrial one.

    . FALSE. Repolarization of atria is not visible behind the QRS complex, it
       would be seen if there is no depolarization of ventricles.

    . FALSE. S wave is depolarization, but moving in the opposite to the lead
       side.
    . TRUE. The current direction of the vector P corresponds to the direction
       of the lead II and is perpendicular to the lead III.

References:
      Hamid Khederlou, H. (2023). Complete heart block associated with

paraneoplastic hypercalcemia: A case report. European Heart Journal, 7(1).
https://doi.org/10.1093/ehjcr/ytac492

      Morlin, M. T., Cruz, C. J. G., Melo, P. B. S., Lopes, G. H. R., Soares, E. M. K.
V. K., Porto, L. G. G., & Molina, G. E. (2020). BRADYCARDIA IN ATHLETES: DOES
THE TYPE OF SPORT MAKE ANY DIFFERENCE? ­ A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW.
SciELO Brazil, 26(5). https://doi.org/10.1590/1517-8692202026052019_0001

      Silverthorn, D. U. (2022). Human physiology an integrated approach (11th
ed.). Pearson, Harlow.

      Teymouri, N., Mesbah, S., Navabian, S. M. H., Shekouh, D., Najafabadi, M.
M., Norouzkhani, N., Poudineh, M., Qadirifard, M. S., Mehrtabar, S., & Deravi,
N. (2022). ECG frequency changes in potassium disorders: a narrative review.
American journal of cardiovascular disease, 12(3), 112­124

      Widemaier, E. P., Vander, A. J., Raff, H., & Strang, K. T. (2019). Vander's
human physiology : The mechanisms of body function (15th ed.). McGraw-Hill
Education.

      Task #39

    . FALSE. Snow leopards' hemoglobin shows almost no sensitivity to DPG,
       as evidenced by nearly identical curves for cofactor-free hemoglobin and
       hemoglobin with added DPG, unlike the noticeable difference seen in
       humans between cofactor-free and DPG-added hemoglobin (Figure 1B).

    . TRUE. The hemoglobin of snow leopards inhabiting high-altitude areas
       has a low affinity to oxygen and causes hypoxia. An enhanced capacity
       to increase ventilation under severe hypoxia could help compensate for
       the low O2 affinity of snow leopards, causing respiratory alkalosis. This,
       in turn, induces increased renal excretion of bicarbonate compared to
       snow leopards living in lowland areas, returning the pH back to normal.

    . FALSE. From Figures 1A and 1B, it can be observed that the oxygen
       affinity of hemoglobin in snow leopards is mostly the same as in lions for
       low oxygen concentrations, which inhabit lowland areas. Therefore, the
       hemoglobin of snow leopards is not adapted to high altitudes
       biochemically, and snow leopards rely on other adaptations like
       hyperventilation.
    . FALSE. Increased P50 means that the hemoglobin has less affinity to
       oxygen. The graph shows a positive change in P50, which implies that KCl
       always lowers affinity. Therefore, KCl causes a stronger decrease in
       affinity to oxygen for the lion's HbA as opposed to the snow leopard's
       HbB (Figure 1C).

References:
      Janecka JE, Nielsen SS, Andersen SD, Hoffmann FG, Weber RE, Anderson

T, Storz JF, Fago A. Genetically based low oxygen affinities of felid hemoglobins:
lack of biochemical adaptation to high-altitude hypoxia in the snow leopard. J
Exp Biol. 2015 Aug;218(Pt 15):2402-9. doi: 10.1242/jeb.125369. PMID:
26246610; PMCID: PMC4528707.

      Zubieta-Calleja G, Zubieta-Castillo G, Zubieta-Calleja L, Ardaya-Zubieta
G, Paulev PE. Do over 200 million healthy altitude residents really suffer from
chronic Acid-base disorders? Indian J Clin Biochem. 2011 Jan;26(1):62-5. doi:
10.1007/s12291-010-0088-9. Epub 2010 Nov 16. PMID: 22211016; PMCID:
PMC3068777.

      Task #40

    . TRUE. From Figure 1, it can be observed that the light-fed mice were
       consistently less active than the dark-fed group over time. Light-fed mice
       also consumed slightly more calories than the dark-fed mice. The
       combined effect of a small increase in caloric intake and a small
       decrease in activity contributes to specific differences in body weight.

    . FALSE. Mice are nocturnal animals with higher activity during the dark
       period (Figure 1) and less temperature fluctuation (Figure 2B). However,
       light-time feeding resulted in an increase in body weight and fluctuations
       in body temperature. Therefore, light-time feeding is an example of
       circadian-behavior misalignment.

    . FALSE. The light-fed mice's body temperature range before the
       experiment was 36-38 and during the light-time feeding, it became 34-38
   degrees Celsius (Figure 2A), while the dark-fed mice's body temperature
   range did not change (Figure 2B).
. FALSE. From Figure 1, it can be seen that with decreasing locomotor
   activity in light-fed mice, their caloric intake from the middle of week 2 to
   the middle of week 6 stays relatively the same.

Reference:

1. Damiola, F., Le Minh, N., Preitner, N., Kornmann, B., Fleury-Olela, F., &
Schibler, U. (2000). Restricted feeding uncouples circadian oscillators in
peripheral tissues from the central pacemaker in the suprachiasmatic

nucleus.    Genes         &  development,  14(23),  2950­2961.
https://doi.org/10.1101/gad.183500
2. Arble, Deanna M et al. "Circadian timing of food intake contributes to

weight gain." Obesity (Silver Spring, Md.) vol. 17,11 (2009): 2100-2.
doi:10.1038/oby.2009.264

      Task #41

    . TRUE. The rate of active bouts persisted through prolonged periods of
       constant light or darkness (Figure 1C), suggesting internal control or
       circadian rhythm.

    . FALSE. From the figures it is seen that they are nocturnal animals
       because active and quiet sleep phases occur during the daytime.

    . FALSE. There is no data provided that shows the changes in the average
       duration of active bouts after sleep deprivation.

    . TRUE. There is an increased amount of bouts after sleep deprivation and
       there is a higher probability of bout being sooner if the bout is
       interrupted.

Reference:
Wake-like skin patterning and neural activity during octopus sleep. Aditi
Pophale, Kazumichi Shimizu, Tomoyuki Mano, Teresa L. Iglesias, Kerry Martin,
Makoto Hiroi, Keishu Asada, Paulette García Andaluz, Thi Thu Van Dinh, Leenoy
Meshulam & Sam Reiter.
      Task #42

    . FALSE. The electric eel employs low-voltage impulses to detect the
       presence of prey nearby. However, for direct localization of prey, it
       utilizes high-voltage impulses. This is evident from the eel's behavior of
       attacking the conducting rod, mistaking it for prey, as the rod affected the
       electric field generated by the high-voltage impulses.

    . FALSE. The eel initiated the attack on the rod because it detected the
       presence of prey nearby. It recognized this when the prey, in response to
       the low-voltage impulse, twitched, thereby creating a mechanical
       movement in the water, which the eel sensed.

    . FALSE. The frame indicates the time point when the high-voltage
       impulses commence (following the low-voltage one). From this, it can be
       inferred that the corpse has already twitched, and the eel has realized
       the presence of prey nearby.

    . FALSE. As stated in the explanation of the first point, for direct prey
       localization prior to attack, the electric eel employs high-voltage
       impulses. Mechanoreceptors only sense water vibrations after the prey
       twitches due to the low-voltage impulse.

Reference:
https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms9638#citeas

      Task #43

    . FALSE. Not all bones are represented by dark areas. For example, the
       eye sockets are shown in light gray.

    . FALSE. Conversely, as the passage widens, the airspeed decreases -
       Poiseuille's Law.

    . FALSE. Structure "l" is tongue (lingua), which has other primary
       functions

    . FALSE. Due to the large weight load per unit area of support, saigas more
       often fall into the snow, which makes them easier prey for wolves in
       winter
Reference:
1. Case studies in novel narial anatomy: 3. Structure and function of the nasal
cavity of saiga (Artiodactyla: Bovidae: Saiga tatarica). Andrew B. Clifford and
Lawrence M. Witmer.
https://people.ohio.edu/witmerl/Downloads/2004_Clifford&Witmer_saiga_no
se.pdf
2. "  " ("Living Treasures of Kazakhstan")
«Kazakhstan» Publishing House, Alma-Ata, 1979. Compiled by E. A. Bychkova.
Scientific editors: E. V. Gvozdev, Academician of the Academy of Sciences of
the Kazakh SSR; V. I. Kapitonov, Candidate of Biological Sciences.

      Task #44

    . FALSE. . Activation of TLR7/8 receptors on X-chromosome bearing
       sperm cells decrease their progressive motility (See Graph A of Figure 2).

    . TRUE. . See Graph C of figure 2. High-mobility sperm cells that don't have
       TLR7/TLR8 receptors (and more likely to have Y chromosome) are in the
       upper layer.

    . TRUE. . Results shown in graphs B and C of Figure 2 allow us to conclude
       that this is a viable method of sorting sperm cells by sex.

    . TRUE. . Difference between R and C groups under different glucose
       concentration from Graph A of Figure 2

      References:
      Umehara, T., Tsujita, N., Zhu, Z., Ikedo, M., & Shimada, M. (2020). A simple
sperm-sexing method that activates TLR7/8 on X sperm for the efficient
production of sexed mouse or cattle embryos. Nature protocols, 15(8), 2645­
2667. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41596-020-0348-y

Umehara, T., Tsujita, N., & Shimada, M. (2019). Activation of Toll-like receptor
7/8 encoded by the X chromosome alters sperm motility and provides a novel
simple technology for sexing sperm. PLoS biology, 17(8), e3000398.
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000398
      Task #45

    . TRUE. . Cross - sections of samples with EC(+) shows luminar structures
       and better media supply, which shows that EC increases the formation
       of new vessels, while function of FGF2 is to promote communication
       with the vascular bed.

    . FALSE. . As you can see in the figures H and G with green fluorescence,
       the green dots are not actively distributed in the cell sheet area in image
       G, while at image H, EC are actively distributed around the cs.

    . TRUE. . By assuming that cells have the same proliferation rate (from the
       same culture of cells), the plateau state in the bioluminescence rate
       indicates the cell survival rate, because at the plateau point, the number
       of living cells with luciferase enzyme is the only limiting factor. It is true
       that EC(-) FGF(+) has higher cell survival than EC(+) FGF(-).

    . FALSE. . For EC(+) FGF(+) the rate can not mainly be explained by simple
       direct diffusion, because direct diffusion alone can not be that fast as
       you can see in the example of all EC(-) samples. The combined effect of
       direct diffusion and transport by newly developed vessels provides a fast
       increasing state.

References:
- In vitro fabrication of functional three-dimensional tissues with perfusable
blood vessels
https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms2406

      Task #46

    . FALSE. We can see that neurons can fire action potential with higher
       frequency (Figure 1C) meaning that this pattern is formed due to different
       reasons.

    . FALSE. Since the membrane potential rises for the fourth time, the
       neuron is not in the absolute refractory period, therefore, with an
       increase in the signal duration, more ions will enter the cell and the
       potential may reach the threshold value.
    . TRUE. The potential of sodium is much further from its equilibrium
       potential than the potential of potassium, therefore, even with the free
       movement of both cations, more sodium will enter the cell.

    . TRUE. For the generation of action potential any duration of light pulse
       longer than certain threshold can work, however to get subthreshold
       depolarization duration of light pulse should be more precise.

Reference:
Boyden, E., Zhang, F., Bamberg, E. et al. Millisecond-timescale, genetically
targeted optical control of neural activity. Nat Neurosci 8, 1263­1268 (2005).
https://doi.org/10.1038/nn1525

      Task #47

    . FALSE. Flying animals require more energy for the beginning of the
       movement.

    . FALSE. It is possible to find the lowest value by solving an equation or
       taking the derivative. V = 0.79 km/h.

    . FALSE. Since each type of gait has its minimum, animals would switch
       between these COT minimums without moving on the intermediate
       speeds - multimodal distribution (with 3 peaks).

    . TRUE. Cod experiences increasing drag because of the movement in the
       water, running animals experience negligible air drag.

References:
Moyes, C. D., & Schulte, P. M. (2016). In Principles of Animal Physiology (pp.
535­538). essay, Pearson.

      Task #48

    . TRUE. The person does full expiration and the only remaining volume is
       RV, meaning that the spirometer is now Vs + ERV

    . FALSE. From the description of the process, it is possible to notice that
       we form a closed system when a person starts to breathe in a spirometer.
       It means that the amount of helium at the beginning of the experiment
       should be equal to the final amount: C1Vs = C2(Vsf+RV). As a result, we
       can calculate RV=(C1Vs)/C2 - Vsf. RV1 = (10*5)/8 - 5.6 = 0.65L = 650 ml
    . TRUE. Constant inspiratory volume + increased RV = increased lung
       volume.
    . TRUE. Patient 2 has decreased RV and decreased ERV, meaning that its
       total lung volume is also smaller with less RV left inside, pneumothorax
       can explain this as the patient would only have one functioning lung.

Reference:
Moyes, C. D., & Schulte, P. M. (2016). In Principles of Animal Physiology (pp.
574­575). essay, Pearson.

      Task #49

    . TRUE. Tachycardia is increased heart rate, meaning that the time
       between each heartbeat, and consequently systole, is smaller.

    . FALSE. High arterial pressure means that there is higher pressure in the
       aorta during the systolic phase and more resistance to ventricular
       contraction. Higher resistance results in lower peak velocity.

    . TRUE. . By simply rearranging the equation, we get that v = c(delta
       f)/(2*f0*cos(theta)) = 120 cm/s

    . TRUE. The area under the curve represents the distance traveled by the
       blood during the entire systole. Blood travel distance = 0.33 * 100 / 2 =
       16.67 cm. We know the distance and we know that the aorta has a radius
       of 1.25 cm, meaning that the volume traveled through the aorta is 16.67
       *(pi * 1.25^2) = 81.8 cm^3. From the graph, it is also seen that the heart
       rate is 60 bpm, CO = 81.8 * 60 = 4908 cm^3 = 4.9 L.

References
https://www.deltexmedical.com/downloads/TechnicalReview.pdf
      Task #50

    . FALSE. While hydrostatic pressure drives blood through the glomerulus,
       water moves via secondary active transport after the sodium.

    . TRUE. While at the same depth, 1 and 3 have different osmolarities, this
       is not due to the water movement, but rather because of the reabsorption
       of the sodium in the collecting duct.

    . FALSE. Osmolarity should be higher than 290 so that water would
       establish 290 in the descending limb, as well as in the collecting duct.

    . TRUE. In this case, sodium will be left in the kidney and gradually all of
       the sodium will accumulate in the medulla.

Reference:
WINTERS, R. W., & DAVIES, R. E. (1961). The role of countercurrent
mechanisms in urine concentration: a review. Annals of Internal Medicine,
54(4), 810-826
