AI ATTESTATION - BiOGuide

As of August 13th 2026, 
Committing to the transparency principles of the EU AI Act (Article 50)(Implemented on August 2nd 2026) and its aligned Code of Practice on Transparency of AI-Generated Content,
BiOGuide is setting in place a new policy of watermarking AI Generated content that has been, is being, or will be used at the platform.
This includes a declaration of all AI Generated content in the website till date and a new beginning with a detailed log of each update's content and help used from AI assistance tools, along with steps toward verification of minimal AI involvement by:
Note that this process had started under EU directives on 2nd of August 2026, but we have finally compiled enough changes, dates, and their logs and transcripts to push forward with this setup and make it public.
1. Implementing a GPG4Win Kleopatra certificate on each commit from 12th August 2026. In this process, all 131 previous commits were removed. Proof of those commits can be seen in backup-unwanted-state branch and in Production logs.
2. Implementing C2PA (https://c2pa.org/) Standards on all available files in the BiOGuide repository. Implementation in progress, completing by August 19th 2026, this document will be updated.
3. Maintaining a changes log with detailed commit messages. Can be found on github itself.
4. All AI generated content will be marked with an AI badge in the form of:
    A) Watermark on images. For example, in our latest BiOClash MB-01 CASE FILE, the graphs will have the original grok watermark. If not so, they will be attributed in other ways visible to the test taker in real time.
    B) Markdown files in Notes@BiOGuide -- Any new content additions which include AI assistance will be logged at github community's detailed commit messages. 
    C) All other files will also have attributions as attested in this document and mentioned in BiOrchive.
5. Declaration of AI contributed content (GENERATION FROM LOG OF ALL PROMPTS TO AI CODING AGENTS, SUMMARY GENERATED BY AGENTS THEMSELVES, can be found at AI_INVOLVEMENT_LOG for proof):
    A) Section 1 - Accounts Section: NO AI INVOLVEMENT due to detailed backend processes and security commitments 
    B) Section 2 - BiOGuide General CSS: AI INVOLVEMENT in:
        1) Used involvement in color palette enforcement confirmation across website to ensure consistency across all elements with all themes of Hextra (including the custom css theme). Fixed issues with rendering of glow in BiOClash and HALL OF FAME pages. (August 4th 2026)
        2) Used involvement in Articles section cards generation with another website as source code implementation inspiration (Undisclosed name due to NDA). (May 31st 2026)
        3) Correction of transparency of Backgrounds in BiOClash and HALL OF FAME to ensure consistency again.(August 11th)
        4) Creation of override for BiOClash and HALL OF FAME. (August 11th)
        5) NO OTHER INVOLVEMENT. ATTESTED IN LOGS.
    C) Section 3 - Notes@BiOGuide: 
        1) Ensuring grammatical consistency across all sections. The strict scope of this was mentioned in the prompts as "Do not attempt to change any explanation or content structure in any way. find out the problems with punctuations or spellings and other grammatical errors throughout the files [Notes@BiOGuide] and fix such instances. Flag any place where content might be affected and confirm those before proceeding." (Throughout the generation)
        2) Marking down the 700+ images into image-sources.md, ensuring each and every image is sourced correctly, with proper license and attribution provided. (Throughout the generation)
        3) Marking down the sources of 100+ video insertions, ensuring each one is correctly attributed.
        4) Codebase reviews. These reviews can be found in /reviews in the directory. 
        5) Debugging appearances: These bugs include:
            ~ Bugs with appearance of images with different background under different themes. Our images are sourced online, so we have to align backgrounds of hundreds of images. AI assistance was used in debugging background affirmations and rendering corrections. This does not include any kind of content generation.
            ~ Debugging sessions for Interactive widgets: Bioguide features around 137 widgets across its 125 content pages. Hence we had to use debugging sessions to ensure consistency. This also did NOT include content generation, except in the cases of: (LOGS RECOVERED FROM PROMPTS, COVERING 23/137 FILES)
            1.haplodiploidy-relatedness-pedigree
            2.hawk-dove-payoff-simulator
            3.hardy-weinberg-calculator
            4.node-internode-bud-clickthrough
            5.motor-protein-walk-animator
            6.monocot-dicot-root-stele-toggle
            7.monocot-dicot-feature-toggle
            8.pedigree-diagnostic-tool
            9.phospholipid-bilayer-self-assembly
            10.pressure-flow-demonstrator
            11.q10-metabolic-rate-calculator
            12.reptilia-paraphyly-demonstrator
            13.alternation-generations-lineage-slider
            14.bordered-pit-perforation-plate-comparator
            15.rim-sorter
            16.fertilization-mechanism-comparison
            17.speciation-mode-classifier
            18.double-fertilization-clickthrough
            19.stomatal-aperture-simulator
            20.starling-forces-capillary-explorer
            21.three-point-testcross-builder
            22.tinbergen-four-questions-sorter
            23.tree-trunk-cross-section-explorer
        6) NO OTHER AI INVOLVEMENT ATTESTED IN LOGS! 
    D) Section 4 - BiOInsights:
        1) NO AI INVOLVEMENT EXCEPT THOSE ALREADY DECLARED.
    E) Section 5 - BiOClash:
        1) We understand that BiOClash is supposed to be the most original part of BiOGuide. Hence we have always kept an AI-Free policy on each and every document that BiOClash includes. These include the current MB-01 CASE FILE, The attempt page, the login informations, and all internal team discussion files such as Research Paper references except those already attested in section 4.A) and in section 5.B). The BiOGuide team shall refrain from using such tools due to the sensitivity of this section. All questions in the actual paper are original and inspired from the respectively attributed papers.
    F) Section 6 - BiOrchive:
        1) BiOrchive is probably the heaviest portion where AI has been used in the website, this has been done in the following ways:
            I) Extraction and conversion of file formats. From PDF to YAML. The whole process has been automated by the scripts available in /scripts in the boguide repository. The process has been automated by choice and intention.
            II) Debugging of scoring system:
            While executing the scoring system. We had a lot of problems with mutationobservers and true/false states without pre-revealing answers (partly owing to issues of the creator's capacity of work), The process was largely debugged by using AI assistance.
            III) Confirmation of availability of topics which had cataloguing of questions per subject available in Notes@BiOGuide Section. As BiOrchive was set up after the former, and the questions were catalogued by the founder without confirming availability of specific topics in the huge section. AI assistance was used to confirm the availability of resources needed to understand the question under review.
            IV) NO OTHER WAYS OF INTEGRATION!
    G) Section 7 - About and Discussions:
        1) No AI Assistance used due to integrity of About section and login backend usage in Discussions section.
    H) Miscellaneous BiOGuide Legal Features:
        1) In the formatting of this document itself (Absolutely NO CONTENT INVOLVEMENT (Check by looking for new claude fingerprint(As document produced after August 11th using Claude Chat)).
        2) In the advisory of Privacy Policy reflecting the lack of legal advisories to the creators.
        3) In the advisory of Licensing choices.
    I) However the current state of BiOGuide is not affected by this declaration at all, we would like to make this anyways:
        In our attempted merger with a non-disclosed website, we used another AI agent (Manus AI) briefly for integration of CSS and styling and some other small game elements (check commit 6b68cf03 in backup-unwanted-state) of that website on request. But the merger eventually collapsed and Manus has not been used ever since. 

Finally we would like to deliver a message from the team:
This message is not intended to to clear our conscience. To be honest, we had no intention of delivering any such message at all. After all this is an admission of use of Artificial intelligence in a website made by students, which will only take out trust score down, if there is any. But, looking at the changes around us, such as the recent codes set up by the European Union and the follow up on them by major artificial intelligence providers, we finally took the decision of having transparency to this process. So we decided to mention the source of every attributable change in our code, regardless of its content impact. After all, as long as it works in the correct direction, and improves our website as a whole to serve the purpose, we have absolutely no problem with such involvements. Please feel free to reach out in case of any objections or doubts!

Thank You,
Yours Sincerely,
Team BiOGuide!
Document E-Signed By Founder and Managing Partner,
BiOGuide.
