--- page 21 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A                  Q2-12
                                                                    English (Official)

10

Magnetotactic bacteria have magnetosomes (magnetite crystals with a lipid membrane) arranged in
a line, helping them find water with suitable oxygen levels in the oxic-anoxic transition zone (OATZ in
Figure 1B). These bacteria are classified into two types: polar, which align their body orientation with the
magnetic field, and axial, which can have two orientations along the magnetic field axis. In the Earth's
Northern and Southern hemispheres, polar bacteria magnetosomes have opposite polarities. To stay in
the OATZ, polar bacteria change the rotation direction of their flagella based on oxygen concentration.

A                          B                          Earth's
                                    Water             magnetic field

                           Depth                      Counter

                                                      Clockwise

                           OATZ

                                           Clockwise

C

                                    Magnetic field

Figure 1. A Magnetotactic bacteria with labeled magnetosomes, the lower image shows the
magnetic field generated. B Northern hemisphere polar bacteria in water, OATZ - suitable
oxygen level. C Experimental setup: water-filled tube with two openings in a magnetic field.
Bacteria start in the anoxic zone (red).

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. Magnetosomes help bacteria find the shortest path toward OATZ.

          B. Polar bacteria from the southern hemisphere should have a clockwise flagella
          rotation when above OATZ.

          C. Axial magnetotactic bacteria will form 2 distinct bands in experimental setup.

          D. Polar magnetotactic bacteria from the southern hemisphere will start a coun-
          terclockwise rotation of flagella when placed into experimental setup.
