--- page 22 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A                    Q2-13
                                                                      English (Official)

11

Directed evolution is a process that mimics natural selection by artificially applying selective pressure to
organisms to screen and select for a desired phenotype. Directed evolution can be employed in protein
engineering.

The Escherichia coli AL strain was engineered by deleting specific pathways that regenerate NAD+ (Fig-
ure 1). NAD+ regeneration can be restored by introducing a foreign enzyme, referred to as Enzyme D,
which converts an exogenous substrate, not naturally connected to the native metabolic network, into a
non-toxic product using NADH as a cofactor. A library comprising randomized mutants of Enzyme D is
introduced into the engineered E. coli AL strain.

                                 C

A

   D                       NAD+

                           NADH

                                             NADH            NAD+

                                 Pyruvate                    D-Lactate

B                                Acetyl-CoA

                                             NADH

                                                       NAD+
                                 Acetaldehyde

                                                       NADH

   E. coli AL strain

                                             NAD+

                                 Ethanol

Figure 1. A: exogenous substrate present in large intestine; B: library variants of enzyme D; C:
carbon source; D: enzyme D
--- page 23 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-14
                                                    English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Library construction is not required for directed evolution, as Enzyme D can
mutate after selective pressure is applied.

B. Enzyme D is under selective pressure only when the strain AL is growing un-
der aerobic conditions.

C. This method of directed evolution allows for differentiating between variants
of NADH-dependent enzymes with low activity or high activity, in order to select
the variants with the highest activity.

D. E. coli AL strains with variants showing higher activity of Enzyme D have a
better chance of survival in the human large intestine.
