--- page 26 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                                                                                        Q3-2
                                                                                                                                                English (Official)

14

The latitudinal diversity gradient describes a common pattern in the species richness seen in most groups
of organisms whereby there are less species in the temperate regions than in the tropics. Species rich-
ness is lowest at the poles and highest on the equator. The ubiquity of this pattern suggests the possi-
bility of a single general explanation but our understanding of this pattern is incomplete. The current
latitudinal zones arose approximately 45 million years ago, after a period in which the Earth was primarily
tropical. The following three hypotheses (Figure 1A-C) could possibly explain this gradient:

A          B                       C                                                                                             tropics

   tropics                 tropics

   temperate

species                                                                                                                          temperate
   richness
                                                          species
                                                             richness
                                                                                                                    species
                                                                                                                       richness
                           temperate

   time                    time                                                                                                  time

Figure 1. A difference in carrying capacity. B difference in diversification rate. C difference in
the starting point of diversification. Note that in each graph only one factor is changed.

   On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
   ones.

   A. The higher variance in species age in the tropics compared to temperate
   regions is an argument supporting the hypothesis C.

   B. The reappearance of the diversity gradient even after the global ecosystem
   catastrophe would argue against the hypothesis C.

   C. Hypothesis B is supported if greater seasonal variation would increase the
   diversification rate.

   D. The fact that most temperate taxa can be found in the tropics, but not vice
   versa, supports the hypothesis A.
