--- page 29 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A                                       Q3-5
                                                                               English (Official)

16

Fractal geometry can be illustrated by Mandelbrot's question: How long is the coast of Britain? The
answer depends on the scale of measurement.

Analogously, ecosystems exhibit scale-dependent resource availability. For instance, measuring Admi-
ralty Island's coastline from the perspective of an eagle (using the distance between nests) yields 761
km, whereas considering barnacles (requiring 2 cm of space) results in 11,000 km.

Figure 1B shows the relationship between the coastline length of Admiralty Island and the scale at which
it is measured, as defined by the equation on the graph. A similar relationship exists for the amount of
resources available for a species that operates at a given scale, as well as for its biomass.

A                          B Coastline
                           Length (km)

                                        a
                                                             b

                                                                                         Scale (km)

Figure 1. A Admiralty island. B Log-log graph of resolution (scale) and the length of Admiralty
coastline; a, b - species; Q - resource available or biomass or coastline length, k - constant, L -
scale, d - fractal dimension describing the complexity of the pattern, more complex patterns
correspond to higher values of d.

          On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
          ones.

          A. The graph for region 1 will have a steeper slope than the graph for region 2.

          B. The number of individuals in an ecosystem consisting solely of species oper-
          ating at scale b is larger than the number of individuals in an ecosystem con-
          sisting solely of species operating at scale a.

          C. According to this theory, along with a decrease in the number of individuals
          at high trophic levels, all predators should have a larger body size than their
          prey.

          D. Social behavior, such as the formation of herds, influences the scale of per-
          spective.
