--- page 61 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A               Q7-6
                                                       English (Official)

42

Electric eels (Electrophorus electricus) are predatory fish that utilize electrical and mechanical signals dur-
ing hunting. They emit two types of electrical impulses: low-voltage, which induces sudden muscle con-
traction of the prey, and high-voltage, which paralyzes the prey, aiding in capture and consumption.

Electrode                  Eel
                                                     Electrode
                                                                Transparent
                                                                  divider

                                        Non-conductive
                                        rod

                           Fish corpse

           Plastic bag

           Figure 1. Experiment setup; black arrow - conductive rod.

In the experiment conducted for studying electrolocation mechanisms of eels, a container with two com-
partments was used, as shown in Figure 1. The lower compartment contained an isolated fresh fish
corpse attached to electrodes, connecting it to the upper compartment's environment. Additionally,
several electrically non-conductive rods and one conductive rod were placed beneath the transparent,
perforated divider.

Results of the experiment indicated that upon placement in the container, the eel began attacking the
conductive rod, but not the fish corpse (Figure 2). Assume that the fish corpse was supplied with a
sufficient amount of ATP.

Figure 2. A Impulses recorded from the upper compartment (x-axis - time, y-axis - voltage);
LW - low voltage impulse, HW - high voltage impulse. B Frames shot form the experiment (BV
- bottom view, SV - side view); black arrow - conductive rod, red arrow - attack. The fish corpse
is highlighted in red.
--- page 62 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-7
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Only low-voltage impulses are required for prey electrolocation.

B. The divider blocked the movement of water between the compartments.

C. The first frame in Figure 2B was taken before the corpse began to contract.

D. Eels prefer to rely on their mechanoreceptors rather than electroreceptors
when localizing the exact location of their prey.
