--- page 73 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A                          Q7-18
                                                                            English (Official)

49

Esophageal Doppler Monitoring (EDM) is a minimally invasive method to measure blood flow in the aorta
and assess cardiac output. A Doppler probe is inserted into the esophagus near the aorta. The principle
behind the measurement is the detection of changes in frequency (Doppler shift) of ultrasound waves
reflected by moving red blood cells. Using the Doppler effect, described by the following equation, the
probe calculates blood flow velocity.

                                =  20 cos                                                     (1)
                                        

where

                  
                   2
          cos  =  2        ,    =  1540m/s,  0  =  4  MHz                                     (2)

The resulting waveform provides important data on heart function, such as stroke volume and cardiac
output, which helps guide clinical decisions in real-time.

       A                      2.5 cm Aorta

                                   Oesophagus

                                                Probe

       B       Velocity
               (cm/s)

          100

                                                 Time (s)

          0 1/3 2/3 1 4/3 5/3

Figure 1. A Placement of the Doppler probe in the esophagus near the aorta to measure blood
flow velocity (red arrow). B Doppler waveform showing linear blood velocity (cm/s) over time
(s), with a peak systolic velocity of 100 cm/s. The area under the curve shows the distance
traveled by blood.
--- page 74 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q7-19
                                                    English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. Tachycardia decreases the intervals between waveforms on the velocity-time
graph.

B. Without any compensation from the heart, high arterial resistance increases
peak velocity.

C. If the largest frequency shift observed for a patient was 4.4 kHz, their peak
velocity is around 120 cm/s

D. According to Figure 1B and 1A, a person's heart ejects 4.9 L of blood per
minute.
