--- page 11 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-2
                                          English (Official)

5

Mutagenesis was performed to determine the effect of single mutations in the binding site of an anti-
body. The mutants were analyzed for binding to four cardiac glycoside molecules: digoxin, digitoxin,
digoxigenin, and ouabain. The binding properties of mutated antibodies were tested by ELISA, a tech-
nique that relies on enzyme-linked antibodies to detect target antigens. After the antibody binds to the
antigen (in our case, glycoside), the enzyme linked to the antibody catalyzes the added substrate, lead-
ing to a color change that can be measured by spectrophotometry at 405 nm. The following heatmaps
represent the ELISA results based on the position of change and the amino acid to which wild-type amino
acid was mutated.

Figure 1. A Binding data of antibodies mutated in the positions described in the figure to the
four glycosides. The absorbance, which correlates to the binding strength of digoxigenin (P),
ouabain (Q), digoxin (R), and digitoxin (S) to the mutated antibodies, was linearly scaled to that
of the wild-type (labeled in red) which was assigned a value of 1.0 (labels of glycosides P, Q, R,
and S should not be confused with the one-letter codes of amino acids). B Differences in the
structure of digoxin (R) and its three analogs. W - sugars.
--- page 12 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-3
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. The strongest binding in position Tyr-33 was for substitution by aromatic
amino acids.

B. In all shown amino acid positions, at least one substitution improves the an-
tibody affinity.

C. Antibody with double substitution Tyr-33-Trp and Trp-100-Arg probably could
be used in cardiac glycoside detection systems.

D. Sugar moieties appear to play a role in the affinities of antibodies to cardiac
glycoside molecules.
