--- page 17 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A                               Q2-8
                                                                       English (Official)

8

Certain loci in the genome are influenced by epigenetic modifications, but understanding their precise
mechanisms remains challenging. The IGF2-H19 locus serves as a well-known example, regulated by
the methylation state of the imprinting control region (ICR). In addition to the two genes, this locus
contains one enhancer and four CTCF-binding sites (CTCF is a DNA-binding protein), one of which serves
as an ICR. A proposed model suggests that the spatial interaction among these elements underlies the
regulatory mechanism governing the expression of IGF2 and H19. CTCF binding does not interrupt with
the promoter function.

A          IGF2               B
                                             IGF2

   H19

                                                   H19

C                             Cohesin

           CTCF

D          IGF2               H19      GENES

        1                  2  3             CTCF-BS
                                       4

Figure 1. A Paternal chromosome, IGF2 active (green arrow) and H19 inactive (red arrow). B
Maternal chromosome, IGF2 and H19 basal expression (black arrows). Note that diagrams A
and B reflects real physical distances and that intersection of two blue lines (represeting DNA)
reflects very close physical proximity of two DNA strands. C DNA loop formed by CTCF and
cohesin. D IGF2-H19 locus with CTCF-binding sites 1-4 (CTCF-BS).
--- page 18 ---
Theoretical Exam - Part A  Q2-9
                                          English (Official)

On your answer sheet, indicate "T" for true statements and "F" for false 1.0pt
ones.

A. One CTCF-binding site can be involved in the formation of only one DNA loop.

B. ICR overlaps with CTCF binding site 2.

C. The enhancer is located between CTCF binding sites 3 and 4.

D. ICR methylation directly affects the expression of H19, independent of the
enhancer.
